# Arthur (Civ6)/Civilopedia

The story of King Arthur has been told and re-told in a dizzying number of ways, moving from oral legend to medieval romance to Romantic literature classic to science fiction. It has been told so many times that finding the origin of the legend is difficult, though uncovering pastiche starring Lancelot, Guinevere, Arthur, and the Round Table is not. In nearly all of the tales, Arthur is a wise king who has gathered a group of noble knights who undertake dangerous but often pious quests. While areas all over the British Isles claim some reference to Arthur, in the earliest tellings, Arthur is a Welsh or Breton hero who defends the land from invaders - something which would have been very much on the minds of Brythonic (British) Celts facing invasions of the Germanic Angles, Saxons, and Danes during the Dark Ages.
In its medieval form, Arthur’s story is a tragic one. As a child, he presaged his destiny by pulling the magical sword Excalibur from a stone, signifying that he would one day become the king of Britain. Over time, he becomes a righteous king. His knights of the Round Table and he have a number of adventures, most famously the quest for the Holy Grail – the cup that supposedly caught Jesus Christ’s blood as he hung on the cross. The most famous of these knights, Lancelot, fell in love with Arthur’s queen, Guinevere, and the two begin an affair. Arthur, enraged, condemns the queen to death, but Lancelot heroically saves her, thus provoking a war between the two former friends.
Local lore has it that he rests somewhere in the land of Avalon, waiting to save the day when England is again threatened. He could, despite popular depictions, count to three without immediately leaping to five and appeared to have no unusual issues with rabbits.