# Georgian (Civ6)/In-depth strategy guide by ThinkingNut

The following guide is being constantly updated by ThinkingNut. ThinkingNut has been playing Civ 6 since the release of the game in late 2016. He plays and wins with [Georgia%20%28Civ6%29](Georgia) on Deity difficulty in Single Player and Multiplayer. The guide has been updated for [Rise%20and%20Fall](Rise and Fall) , [Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm) and [New%20Frontier%20Pass%20%28Civ6%29](New Frontier Pass).
Introduction.
Georgia is a versatile, straightforward and solid civilisation that can, with the right [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religious) and diplomatic setup, effectively go for any Victory type and gain an advantage no matter the map or geopolitical situation.
[Tamar%20%28Civ6%29](Tamar)'s Glory of the World, Kingdom and Faith ability allows her to quickly become and stay the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of many [City-States%20%28Civ6%29](City-States), thus absorbing their Suzerain bonuses and yields. She therefore can earn massive amounts of [Diplomatic%20Favor%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Favor) ( only) and [Gold%20%28Civ6%29](Gold) with the right government policies. She also gains [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) from combat victories equal to 50% of the Combat Strength of the defeated unit. This has excellent synergy with [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel).
Strength In Unity is an extremely powerful ability if competently leveraged, allowing Georgia to potentially earn multiple and consecutive [Golden%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Ages) more easily than any other civilisation in the game. It also grants a +50% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) bonus towards [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](walls).
The [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsur) is a unique melee [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) unit that replaces the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms), costs half the to train, is stronger by 3 Combat Strength, has no movement penalty in [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](hills) and gets a +7 Combat bonus when fighting on [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](hills). It is a great counter to [Pikeman%20%28Civ6%29](Pikemen) and can even win against [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights) if it fights on hills.
The [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhe) is a [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance) walls replacement that is cheaper, tougher, and grants +4 [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) which is doubled (along with its innate [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism) bonus) when Georgia is in a Golden Age. 
In terms of difficulty, Georgia is a relatively simple civilisation to pick up and play well. The key is understanding the general game mechanics of Golden Ages, diplomacy (specifically in Single Player) and Religion and using these to your advantage. Once you do, you will find that this is a civilisation that scales consistently and well into the late game. If played well, she will be a force to be reckoned with at all difficulty levels.
Good luck!
Victory Types.
This section is intended to showcase the versatility of Georgia's kit for all Victory types. Note that these strategies are not set in stone, and are general guidelines that are meant to be adapted to the circumstances of the game.
Beginner's Mini-Guide To Georgia.
If you are fairly experienced at playing Civilization 6 but picking up Georgia for the first time, here are my eleven beginner's tips to make your learning curve easier. The idea is to set yourself up for massive and scaling amounts of [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith), [Gold%20%28Civ6%29](Gold) and [Diplomatic%20Favor%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Favor) ( only), maintaining [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerainty) of multiple [City-States%20%28Civ6%29](City-States) and protecting yourself from enemies with the [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsur) and [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhe). Note that these are general tips that work fairly well in all situations. When you get more experienced, learning to adapt these suggestions to your immediate environment will be key so that you leverage the maximum advantage as a Georgia player.
For more advanced, in-depth notes and strategies, please see below:
Glory Of The World, Kingdom And Faith.
There are two parts to this ability:
1. Each to City-States that have Tamar's Religion as their majority Religion counts as 2 s.
2. Gain [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) from combat victories equal to 50% of the Combat Strength of the defeated unit (on Standard Speed).
Notes On Double s.
Under Tamar's rule, Georgia has an exceptional ability to generate and become the Suzerain of multiple City-States. This only comes into effect if Tamar's Religion counts as the majority Religion in that City-State. Note that this can also be a Religion someone else has founded. Once this condition is met, this means a +100% boost to all generation in that City-State.
Six notes here:
Notes On [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) From Combat Victories.
5 important notes on this mechanic:
Recommendations For Religious Beliefs.
Pantheons are always situational to your particular map. As for Beliefs, please see as follows:
Standard route: Choral Music -&gt; World Church -&gt; Holy Order -&gt; [Pagoda%20%28Civ6%29](Pagoda).
Domination variation: Zen Meditation -&gt; Tithe -&gt; [Stupa%20%28Civ6%29](Stupa) -&gt; Crusade.
Analysis: The from Choral Music and World Church is helpful for faster access to [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy) and [Merchant%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Confederation), Georgia's two key power spikes. It also helps you get quicker access to civics that grant s. Holy Order allows you to spread your Religion more efficiently and effectively. Pagoda synergises with your ability to gain Suzerainty over many city-states and amass a lot of Diplomatic Favor. 
If you are going for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Domination Victory), Zen Meditation and Stupa will help keep your cities happy. Tithe will support the maintenance of your army. Crusade will give your army more Combat Strength in enemy territory.
Strength In Unity.
There are two parts to this ability:
With the first part, this means that Georgia can earn multiple, consecutive Golden Ages more competently than any other civilisation. It also means that she can more easily transition into a Golden Age after a Heroic Age. To achieve this, you will need to very carefully weigh what each [Dedication%20%28Civ6%29](Dedication) will offer you, and how you can earn [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) if you choose it. This does mean that you will have to adjust your play style depending on which Dedication you choose at the start of each [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era). E.g. If you picked Exodus of the Evangelists, prioritise spreading your Religion for that Era. Once you enter your first Golden Age, it'll be easier to maintain successive Golden Ages with some careful planning.
The second part is very helpful to help us build our unique building, the [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhe). When building [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](walls), it is advisable to also pick the [Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes) [Military%20Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Military Policy Card) to boost the [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) bonus to +150%.
Tsikhe.
The [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhe) is a replacement for the [Renaissance%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Walls). It has a lower [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) cost at 265 instead of 305 (which is then lowered further by the +50% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) bonus from Strength In Unity), grants +200 Outer Defense Strength instead of +100, +3 [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism) (after researching the [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) civic) instead of +2, and +4 [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) instead of 0. When in a Golden Age, the [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism) and [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) yields are doubled.
This means that even with the standard +4 [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) per turn, the Georgian empire has access to a reliable source of [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) in all her games. This gives her gameplay flexibility because she does not necessarily have to prioritise building [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) in all her cities, and can rely on the Tsikhe for an alternate source of [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) generation. This building allows Georgia to quickly turn all her cities into impregnable fortresses while also gaining massive [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) yields. These [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) yields can then be used to buy her a huge army once she has constructed [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel). If you are going for a [Culture%20Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Culture Victory), the [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism) yield, especially in a Golden Age, will be useful.
The [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy) tier 2 government complements the Tsikhe perfectly. It gives +2 [Diplomatic%20Favor%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Favor) and +1 to each Tsikhe (for a total of +3 per city since, to get to the Tsikhe, we have to build both [Ancient%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) and [Medieval%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Walls) first).
It should be noted that walls are obsolete once [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel) is unlocked. All cities are then upgraded with [Urban%20Defenses%20%28Civ6%29](Urban Defenses). This prevents any further walls from being built. So if you plan to build the Tsikhe in your cities, it would be wise to wait until all the walls are finished before researching Steel. Thankfully, the yields of the Tsikhe remain regardless of whether or not you have researched Steel.
On the subject of technologies, the boost for [Siege%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Tactics), the technology needed for the Tsikhe, is owning two [Trebuchet%20%28Civ6%29](Trebuchets). This should not be difficult to achieve as Trebuchets do not have any strategic resource requirements.
Finally, grabbing the [Military%20Research%20%28Civ6%29](Military Research) [Military%20Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Military Policy Card) grants the Tsikhe +2 [Science%20%28Civ6%29](Science) per turn. This brings the maximum potential benefits of a single Tsikhe up to an impressive +8 [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith), +6 [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism), +2 [Diplomatic%20Favor%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Favor), +1 and +2 [Science%20%28Civ6%29](Science).
Khevsur.
The [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsur) is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique melee unit) that is unlocked after researching [Military%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tactics).
On the positive side, when compared to its replacement, the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms), it costs 10 to train instead of 20 , boasts 48 Combat Strength instead of 45, gains +7 Combat Strength when fighting on [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](hills), and receives no penalties from hills. The extra +7 Combat Strength also applies when the target you are attacking into is on a hill tile. Like the Man-At-Arms, it also gets +5 Combat Strength vs. anti-cavalry units.
Taking all that into account, the Khevsur is a legitimately strong, mobile and useful unit. They can be bought relatively inexpensively with [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) after Georgia has built the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel), or upgraded into from [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen). Its higher base Combat Strength and bonus against anti-cavalry units means that it slaughters [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen) and [Pikeman%20%28Civ6%29](Pikemen) with ease, and can even win battles against [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights) as long as it fights on hills. The superior mobility on hilly terrain means that a skilled Georgian player can outflank, outmanoeuvre and overpower enemies with an army of Khevsurs. 
One final note: Because the boost for [Military%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tactics) requires a unit to be killed by a [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman), it would be in your best interests to grab a Spearman early on for [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) hunting so that you can get to Khevsurs faster.
Policy Cards.
This section will recommend what policy cards work best in synergy with Georgia's kit. As such, the recommended play style is intended to revolve around getting [Gold%20%28Civ6%29](Gold) from your , and maximising the accessibility and value of the [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsur) and [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhe).
A special mention must be made for the unique Wildcard policies that are available if you have the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) Game Mode enabled. As Georgia's kit allows her to get an extra Wildcard Policy Slot and be able to use both Golden and Dark Age Policy Cards when she is in a [Golden%20Age](Golden Age), learning effective strategies for certain goals and phases of the game are crucial for success at higher difficulty levels.
Government.
My top recommendation would be [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy).
Monarchy is currently the single best government in the game for Georgia because of the synergy between its bonuses and Georgia's kit. +50% influence points complements the high generation of Glory of the World, Kingdom and Faith. +1 per level of [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls) is great because, as Georgia, we want to build all three levels of walls in all our cities to get the benefit of [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhes). The +2 [Diplomatic%20Favor%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Favor) for Renaissance Walls applies to the Tsikhe, and is far too good to pass up. It helps Georgia gain tremendous amounts of [Diplomatic%20Favor%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Favor) by the middle to late game. As the government provides two [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Wildcard Policy Slots), it allows you to keep your essential [Charismatic%20Leader%20%28Civ6%29](Charismatic Leader) / [Gunboat%20Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](Gunboat Diplomacy) and [Merchant%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Confederation) combination without sacrificing other aspects of Georgia's gameplay.
Note that the required for [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right), the Civic that unlocks Monarchy, requires you to build two [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temples). This requirement has great synergy with Georgia's gameplay as she would prioritise [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) in the early game to spread her Religion to nearby City-States. 
All other governments are situational.
Government Plaza Building.
My top recommendation would be [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel).
[Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel) works exceptionally well with the [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) from kills from Glory of the World Kingdom and Faith. It frees up a [Military%20Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Military Policy Slot) which would otherwise be needed for [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) bonus enhancing cards towards military units - [Feudal%20Contract%20%28Civ6%29](Feudal Contract) or [Chivalry%20%28Civ6%29](Chivalry), for example. This allows me the flexibility to go [Conscription%20%28Civ6%29](Conscription) + [Wars%20of%20Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Wars of Religion) if I am at war or [Conscription%20%28Civ6%29](Conscription) + [Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes)/[Military%20Research%20%28Civ6%29](Military Research) if I am at peace.
All other Government Plaza Buildings are situational.
Governors.
My top two recommendations would be [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha) and [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor.)
Dedications.
These Dedications work well with Georgia's kit:
All other Dedications are situational. 
Synergistic Wonders.
These ten Wonders work well with Georgia's kit:
Note that I have deliberately omitted Religiously inclined Wonders such as the [Kotoku-in%20%28Civ6%29](Kotoku-in) and [Meenakshi%20Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Meenakshi Temple) as including them would be redundant - they work well with every Religious civilisation.
City-States.
These three [City-States%20%28Civ6%29](City-States) work particularly well with Georgia's kit. Prioritise becoming their [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain)!
Secret Societies Game Mode.
With the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) game mode (introduced in the [Ethiopia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia Pack)) enabled, Georgia receives a very substantial buff to her gameplay. I recommend the [Owls%20of%20Minerva%20%28Civ6%29](Owls of Minerva), [Voidsingers%20%28Civ6%29](Voidsingers) and [Sanguine%20Pact%20%28Civ6%29](Sanguine Pact) as they reliably complement Georgia's kit the most and give her gameplay the most flexibility. 
"Owls of Minerva:"
The Initiation bonus of earning 1 every time a Trade Route is sent to a City-State works extremely well with Glory of the World, Kingdom and Faith.
If you are going for a [Religious%20Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Victory), the extra Economic policy slot allows you to run the [Religious%20Orders%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Orders) policy card without sacrificing the all-important [Merchant%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Confederation) policy card or any other part of your kit.
The [Gilded%20Vault%20%28Civ6%29](Gilded Vault) Bank replacement that comes with the Ritual bonus complements Georgia's play style very well. The additional [Culture%20%28Civ6%29](Culture) will help her more quickly unlock civics that grant s.
If you are also playing with the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) Game Mode enabled, the extra Wildcard Policy Slot that comes with the Indoctrination bonus complements the additional Wildcard Policy Slot Georgia receives when she is in a [Golden%20Age](Golden Age). This is especially useful for Georgia as she has more room to make use of her unique ability to slot in both Dark and Golden Age policies while she is in a Golden Age.
"Voidsingers:"
The [Old%20God%20Obelisk%20%28Civ6%29](Old God Obelisk) from the Melody bonus is the main selling point of this Society. It is an incredibly powerful generator of [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) that helps Georgia spread her Religion during the early game. It is especially useful since it is unlocked so early. 
The Chorus bonus is also synergistic with the Tsikhe. Even if a city has not built a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site), the Old God Obelisk and Tsikhe (assuming you land in a [Golden%20Age](Golden Age)) would generate a total of 12 [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) per turn, which would also translate into an extra 2.4 , and . 
[Cultists%20%28Civ6%29](Cultists) work fairly well with Georgia's late game because she can pile on loyalty pressure to nearby rival cities with her consecutive Golden Ages. The added loyalty pressure from each citizen would help lower the loyalty of rival cities so that Cultists can do their work more efficiently. 
"Sanguine Pact:" 
[Vampire%20%28Civ6%29](Vampires) work well with Georgia because of multiple reasons - the first being that Georgia's allied City-State forces can soften up enemy trooops so that your Vampires can swoop in for easy kills. The second is that Georgia can take advantage of the Crusade belief to help make her Vampires more powerful. The third is that the [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsur)'s high base Combat Strength can bolster Vampires, making a Khevsur + Vampire + [Battering%20Ram](Battering Ram) / [Siege%20Tower](Siege Tower) advance difficult to stop. The fourth is that Vampires can, through Glory of the World, Kingdom and Faith, grant Georgia [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) through kills, thus helping her spread her religion (and get the benefit of Crusade) in the early to middle game. 
If you have the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes and Legends) Game Mode enabled, [Himiko](Himiko) can further strengthen Vampires, giving them a whopping +15 Combat Strength boost (with Crusade) before the Industrial Era. If you have the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) Game Mode enabled, once you hit the Industrial Era, being able to slot in the [Soft%20Targets%20%28Civ6%29](Soft Targets) Dark Age policy card (from Strength In Unity) will increase that advantage to +25 Combat Strength against cities. This combination makes your Vampires especially lethal in the middle and late game, thus hastening your inevitable [Domination%20Victory](Domination Victory). 
Tech and Civic Shuffle Game Mode.
With the [Tech%20and%20Civic%20Shuffle%20%28Civ6%29](Tech and Civic Shuffle) game mode (introduced in the [Civilization%20VI%20August%202020%20Update](August 2020 Game Update)) enabled, Georgia receives an indirect buff to founding a Religion. Because [Astrology%20%28Civ6%29](Astrology) cannot be instantly bee-lined by all civilisations in this game mode, civilisations that do not quickly discover Astrology will lag behind in the race for [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophets). This gives the human player more of a chance to gain an advantage towards Great Prophet points if he/she manages to discover Astrology before other civilisations.
Although this is an indirect buff, it is a big buff to Georgia since her kit does not have anything that helps her with founding a Religion unless you are playing with the Dramatic Ages mode enabled. This game mode somewhat evens the playing field in that regard, thus allowing her to better compete with other religious civilisations like [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia), [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan) and [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia) for Great Prophets.
Dramatic Ages Game Mode.
With the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) game mode (introduced in the [Byzantium%20%26amp%3B%20Gaul%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium &amp; Gaul Pack)) enabled, Georgia's civilisation ability is reworked. Strength In Unity now enables you to gain an additional Wildcard [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy slot) in all [Government%20%28Civ6%29](Governments) while you are in a [Golden%20Age](Golden Age). It also allows you to use [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dark Age) policies while in a Golden Age. The +50% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) bonus towards [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls) remains the same.
This Game Mode is an all-round buff to Georgia. The additional Wildcard policy slot allows her to run powerful combinations such as [Exodus%20of%20the%20Evangelists%20%28Civ6%29](Exodus of the Evangelists) and [Monumentality%20%28Civ6%29](Monumentality) when in peaceful times. Exodus of the Evangelists can also help her found a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religion) more quickly and effectively if she is in a tight race for Great Prophets by the start of the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era). Later in the game, the extra policy slot also allows her to gain access to the powerful [Soft%20Targets%20%28Civ6%29](Soft Targets) Dark Age policy and [To%20Arms%21%20%28Civ6%29](To Arms!) Golden Age policy combination if she decides to go to war while in a Golden Age. If you are following a more peaceful route, grabbing the [Robber%20Barons%20%28Civ6%29](Robber Barons) Dark Age policy after building the [Est%C3%A1dio%20do%20Maracan%C3%A3%20%28Civ6%29](Estadio do Maracana) Wonder is an incredibly powerful combination. The Wildcard policy slot allows her to run her classic [Charismatic%20Leader%20%28Civ6%29](Charismatic Leader) / [Gunboat%20Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](Gunboat Diplomacy) + [Merchant%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Confederation) combination while still having options for other policies. Overall, the extra policy slot gives her gameplay much more flexibility and power at all stages of the game, and helps her remain in subsequent Golden Ages.
Era Score also becomes so much more valuable as a resource in this game mode. As it now directly affects loyalty pressure exerted by your citizens towards other civilisations, Georgia is in a much more well-placed position to take advantage of her ability to chain together her Golden Ages. While other civilisations might suffer more by losing control over cities in a Dark Age, Georgia can more competently keep control over her own cities, and may even flip other cities towards her if the Era Score difference between her and a neighbour is enough. This is especially the case if she is trying to hang onto newly conquered cities, thus increasing her proficiency in war. 
Since [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Normal Ages) are removed in this game mode, Georgia can much more reliably enter into multiple Golden Ages, thus further snowballing her already strong potential.
Additionally, as other civilisations that enter into a Dark Age lose control over cities, their overall productivity and yields would dip at the start of every Era. They would have to either flip the city or cities back through loyalty pressure or take it back by military force. This sets any civilisation back if they enter into a new era with a Dark Age. This then increases and snowballs Georgia's advantage if she can maintain her Golden Ages throughout the game.
It should also be said that Dark Ages are doubly more punishing for Georgia. In addition to all its usual setbacks, Georgia also loses that valuable Wildcard policy slot. Players of Georgia would therefore need to be very careful to accumulate enough Era Score to maintain her Golden Ages throughout the game.
Heroes &amp; Legends Game Mode.
With the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes and Legends) game mode (introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack)) enabled, Georgia receives a huge buff because she can potentially gain access to [Himiko%20%28Civ6%29](Himiko) and [Hercules%20%28Civ6%29](Hercules). 
[Himiko%20%28Civ6%29](Himiko) is by far the best Hero in the game to complement Georgia's kit. Everything about her abilities synergise fantastically with Georgia's play style. With Himiko on your side, Georgia can easily overcome her relatively weak early game and reach her middle game power spike much earlier. This will help her snowball well into the late game. 
As Georgia has no inherent [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) bonus towards building [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) or founding a Religion, Hercules makes up for this weakness by being able to rush build any District with his Hercules' Labor ability. He also acts as an early game counter to [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) while Georgia focuses on founding a Religion.
Monopolies and Corporations Game Mode.
With the [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29](Monopolies and Corporations game mode) (introduced in the [Vietnam%20%26amp%3B%20Kublai%20Khan%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam and Kublai Khan Pack)) enabled, Georgia receives an indirect buff.
If you can establish an early [Industry%20%28Civ6%29](Industry) with [Amber%20%28Civ6%29](Amber), [Dyes%20%28Civ6%29](Dyes), [Incense%20%28Civ6%29](Incense) and/or [Pearls%20%28Civ6%29](Pearls), you'll be able to gain the superior yields that come with that Industry as well as the unique bonus of +25% [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) in that city. This further enhances your [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) output, and can help you with converting nearby City-States. 
Barbarian Clans Game Mode.
With the [Barbarian%20Clans%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian Clans) game mode (introduced in the free [Civilization%20VI%20February%202021%20Update](February 2021 Update)), Georgia receives another indirect buff. Because Barbarian camps now accumulate progress towards becoming a [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-State), it would be in Georgia's best interests to hasten that progress through bribing and hiring so she can become Suzerain over even more City-States and therefore reap the consequent rewards. It also helps that camps that have just become City-States start with a low population. This makes it easier for Georgian [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) and [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles) to convert the said City-States to her Religion - one to two charges are usually enough. 
Zombie Defense Game Mode.
With the [Zombie%20Defense%20%28Civ6%29](Zombie Defense) game mode (introduced in the [Portugal%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal Pack)) enabled, Georgia receives yet another indirect buff. Killing [Zombies%20%28Civ6%29](Zombies) is a great source of [Faith%20%28Civ6%29](Faith) in the early game, and since she can quickly and cheaply build walls (especially the superior Tsikhe), her cities stand a better chance to survive in case hoards of Zombies attack. The Khevsur's value is also increased since its superior mobility and +7 Combat Strength on hill tiles can help it dispatch Zombies efficiently. 
How to Play Against Georgia.
Simply invade Georgia during the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) to [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) with as much military as possible while she is preoccupied with building [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites). She is relatively weak before getting her main power spikes - [Merchant%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Confederation), [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy), [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel), [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsurs) and [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhes). Even if you don't manage to kill her, simply causing sufficient damage to her economy will cripple her for the rest of the game. Therefore, any civilisation that has bonuses toward early game warfare will do well against Georgia. E.g. [Aztecs%20%28Civ6%29](Aztecs), [Scythians%20%28Civ6%29](Scythians) and [Sumerians%20%28Civ6%29](Sumerians).
An alternative way to weaken Georgia is to capture and/or raze her nearby City-States. This will axe her ability to grow prosperous from her long-term relationships with the said City-States. The [Germans%20%28Civ6%29](Germans) are particularly good at this.