# FreeCol user manual/Introduction/The Original Colonization

[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](The original Colonization) was released in 1994 by [MicroProse](MicroProse). Colonization is heavily based on [Civilization](Civilization) which some consider to be the best turn-based strategy game for the PC in the history of mankind.
In Civilization the object of the game was to build a nation that could stand the test of times and that could also do one of the following: conquer the world or be the first to launch a spaceship. In Colonization things are bit different...
A Colonization game starts in 1492 and the object of the game is to colonize [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20New%20World](America). You begin the game with one vessel and two [colonist](colonist)s.
As in Civilization you need to build a powerful nation, but fortunately in the early part of the game you'll be able to send [ship](ship)s back to [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Your%20Home%20Country/Your%20Home%20Port](Europe) in order to sell the [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20New%20World/Goods](goods) you've produced or to bring back some colonists. Getting colonists into [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20New%20World](the new world) is a very important aspect of the game as one game turn takes one year and later on even one season and as a result [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Colonies](colonies) don't grow as rapidly as they do in Civilization. You can pay colonists to come to the new world or you can show off with the religious freedom of your people in which case they will hop on your vessels for no money at all.
Another important aspect is trade: the source of all income (apart from [Inca](Inca) and [Aztec](Aztec) gold). In a land filled with precious [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20New%20World/Goods](resources) it is important to [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Colonies/Picking%20a%20suitable%20site](build your colonies at the right location) and to place [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Units/Skills%20and%20Education](craftsmen) where they belong. This is not only to have an income but also to be able to live off the land when you can no longer count on the support of Europe.
Through all this you'll have to decide whether or not you want to live next to the [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20New%20World/Native%20Settlements](Native Americans) peacefully. They can teach your colonists new [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Units/Skills%20and%20Education](skills) that cannot be tought anywhere else and they will offer you [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20New%20World/Goods](goods) in case you choose to treat them as your friends. On the other hand, their villages can be attacked and their valuable [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20New%20World/Goods](goods) can be taken from them and sold in Europe.
Other European forces are also busy occupying their piece of the new world. Should their borders go too far then take over some of their colonies by [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Units/Combat](force) because they wouldn't hesitate to do the same thing to you.
The object of Colonization is to [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20Birth%20of%20a%20Nation/The%20Declaration%20of%20Independence](declare your independence) and survive an [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Units/Combat](attack) of [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Your%20Home%20Country/Your%20Monarch](the King)'s forces. Before declaring your independence you need to have the majority of the people behind you. This can be done by [FreeCol%20user%20manual/The%20Birth%20of%20a%20Nation/Sons%20of%20Liberty](promoting free speech) and by providing a [FreeCol%20user%20manual/Colonies/Picking%20a%20suitable%20site/Government%20Efficiency](strong governmental system).
"Stian Grenborgen 2009-01-14" 