# Manila (Civ5)/Civilopedia

Although accurate historical records of Manila's early history are limited, sometime around the 10th century AD, the site of the Philippine's future capital city was settled in its earliest incarnation. It wasn't until 1571 however, with the arrival of [Spanish%20%28Civ5%29](Spanish) [Conquistador%20%28Civ5%29](Conquistador) Miguel Lopez de Legazpi, that the existing settlements were destroyed, and the reconstructed city first came to be known as Manila. For the next 300 years, Manila and the Philippine islands remained under Spanish control. In 1898, Spain relinquished the Philippine territories to the [American%20%28Civ5%29](United States) after the Spanish-American War in a mock sea battle in Manila Bay and the walled city of Intramuros to save face at a time when Spanish forces were massively losing ground all over the archipelago. The United States, seeking to find an opportunity to gain a colony, quickly turned on their Filipino allies despite prior commitments to help and keep away from Philippine affairs. The victorious 1st Philippine Republic quickly lost the upper hand and submitted due to pressures of two back-to-back wars with colonial powers.
Manila's port, simply known as the Port of Manila, is one of the busiest seaports in the world, and the primary means of import and export within the Philippines. With a diverse variety of exported products, ranging from food and local commodities, to chemicals and industrial products, the Philippines rely heavily on Manila's port to maintain their flourishing economy. Tourism is also a major component of the local economy in Manila, as visitors come from around the world to see the historic walled district within Manila known as the Intramuros.