# Graveyard

Graveyards are special areas where killed enemies come back to fight again as undead warriors. Only appearing in [The%20Wastes](The Wastes) and [The%20Dark%20Tower](The Dark Tower), they can be a serious thorn in the player's side if not countered with the right defenses. Skeletons and Skeleton Knights from the Graveyard give [gold](gold), 2 (3 on Steam) and 10 respectively.
Description.
The graveyard itself is filled with old tombstones and is surrounded by a large fence. Reanimated enemies will rise up from the ground, before walking out onto the path.
A humanoid enemy, when killed, will either turn into a [Skeleton](Skeleton) or a [Skeleton%20Knight](Skeleton Knight), based on their maximum health: enemies with less than 300 health turn into [%20Skeleton](a Skeleton), and enemies with 300 or more health turn into a [Skeleton%20Knight](Skeleton Knight.) Beasts, , and enemies [Sorcerer%20Mage](polymorphed) by Sorcerer Mages do not become skeletons.
Strategy.
 are recommended to guard graveyards: the hordes that pour out of it can otherwise quickly become uncontrollable. A [500mm%20Big%20Bertha](500mm Big Bertha) or a [Tesla%20x104](Tesla x104)'s Overcharge can kill masses of skeletons in one or two shots.
If artillery towers are not available (in the [Iron%20Challenge](Iron Challenge)s), staving off the skeletons with is also possible. The best strategy is to use [Holy%20Order](Paladins), as they can heal themselves and their Holy Strike ability does area damage.
Another strategy is to use the [Rangers%20Hideout](Rangers Hideout), with Wrath of the Forest fully upgraded. The vines will constrict on the Skeletons, killing them on easy and normal [difficulty](difficulty) and severely crippling them on hard difficulty. However, if Poison Arrows are upgraded, the Rangers will ignore the skeletons when other enemies are present, as skeletons are immune to poison and take second priority. Be cautious!