# Lord Malagar

Lord Malagar is one of the two main antagonists of Kingdom Rush: Frontiers, though his role as final boss was surpassed by the Umbra. He is the sorcerer who stole [Vez%27nan](Vez'nan's) staff after he is [The%20Dark%20Tower](defeated) at the end of the original [Kingdom%20Rush](Kingdom Rush), but is later revealed to be a mere pawn under the control of the final boss [Umbra](Umbra) despite having the staff of Vez’nan himself.
Appearances.
[The%20Dark%20Tower](The Dark Tower).
After defeating Vez'nan at the end of the first Kingdom Rush campaign, his staff with the corrupted Tear of Elynie on its end lays unattended on the ground. An unidentified person reaches for the staff and exclaims "Mine!" as they pick it up.
[Hammerhold](Hammerhold).
At the end of the opening stage, Lord Malagar flies out of the Hammerhold on a cloud, carrying Vez'nan's staff and the Hammer of Ages, an artifact stored within and protected by the stronghold. It's revealed that he entered the fortress and smuggled the hammer out while you were busy fighting his minions. He disables your with an unbreakable spell; unlike Vez'nan's previous attack; then escapes.
[Emberspike%20Depths](Emberspike Depths).
Though mentioned in the introductions to several levels, Lord Malagar does not appear again until the [Emberspike%20Depths](very end), where he's preparing for the release of his master Umbra. He stands on a high plateau before a large crystal structure and cannot be attacked.
During this stage, Lord Malagar gains access to a very powerful attack, which deals around 200-250 damage to a small area, enough to kill all three soldiers in any , save for only the [Knights%20Templar](Templars.) The red lightning rips huge chunks of HP out of your [Hero](Hero), with weaker Heroes like [Mirage](Mirage) or [Nivus](Nivus) unable to survive even one shot.
The good news is that Lord Malagar rarely uses this devastating attack, at most once per wave, and he tends to fire at soldiers. He prioritizes units sitting closer to the central plateau where he stands. The closer your units are to where Lord Malagar is standing, the greater the chances of him directing his fire towards said units, to the point that those directly below the stairs underneath Malagar are almost always blasted.
When the last enemy of wave 15 is defeated, Lord Malagar finishes his ritual and Umbra is freed. The force of the explosion knocks him to the edge of the plateau. Hanging on for dear life, Lord Malagar begs for his master to save him, though Umbra simply zaps him down the abyss, to his apparent death.
After Umbra is defeated, the corrupted Tear of Elynie at the tip of Vez'nan's staff; which had been knocked off when Umbra killed Lord Malagar; is picked up by a creature with green hands and suction cups at the fingertips, saying "Mine!" in the Alienese language from .
Hammerhold DLC.
Lord Malagar makes a cameo in each level of the Hammerhold DLC for Kingdom Rush, having been brought back to the land of the living somehow. Clicking/tapping on him in each level will net the player the achievement "Malagar Is Back!".
Lore.
THE SHADOW OF THE DARK LORD
The burning hate rose from his blackened heart, threatening to consume him. It made his blood run hot with rage and boil in his veins. His savior was gone. Vez'nan had been defeated and he was alone again.
Memories from a distant past flashed through his mind. A time when he was valued as little more than a slave. A footstool for his superiors to step on. He had always known he was better than them, destined to do great things beyond the cold walls of that dark and moldy office he rotted in for years. He knew one day those fools would regret treating him as if he was a worthless maggot!
Vez'nan was the first person to recognize his potential, and he had done so rightfully. From the moment he had been told to spy on Denas, he had never once failed his master. He proved his loyalty time after time and earned his deserved place beside the Dark Lord. Now it was a matter of time before everyone would know his name: Malagar.
But everything he had worked and suffered for had been taken away in the blink of an eye. His master was gone. It was crystal clear to him now he couldn't trust or follow anyone. It was time to take matters into his own hands.
Malagar knew he did not have the ability of his former master to fiddle with dark magic, but he had picked up some tricks along the way. He had helped the dark wizard to prepare for the binding ceremony with Moloch the demon, and he remembered each step clearly. If he could get his hands on a much stronger source of power, he could have his revenge and all Linirea would bow to him and him only!
Using the shadows as his allies, Malagar sneaked into the castle library to find a book he had seen in the past but never dared to touch. It was an old book that pulsed with magic.
That night he learned about a powerful entity that had almost devastated Linirea. A god-like creature that was banished and locked in a cell using a long-forgotten type of magic, one that only gods could grant. He knew he had found what he so desperately needed: his revenge was now within grasp.
He would dedicate every minute of every day to gather the artifacts he needed to release this being of limitless power.. He knew that Umbra would grace him with a reward for coming so far; it would merge with him, and all its powers would become his. His plan was flawless, and he was eager to begin… this time, the world would belong to him... or no one!
A SOUL BOUND WEAPON: THE HAMMER OF AGES
Many songs have been composed and stories told about the first dwarf that set foot on the continent. You may think some of them were exaggerated (and you would have been right), as the dwarven bards are known for adding a little extra spice to their compositions. But truth be told, the story of Farcon Ironbeard has no match. 
His origin remains a mystery, but all stories agree he was the first dwarf to settle on Dwaraman. His forging abilities were legendary and it was said he added a bit of magic to his creations to make them unique. However, this was not true, at least not for all his creations but one. 
His masterpiece (and most priced possession) was a silver hammer he forged with his own hands and was meant to be a tribute to the dwarven gods. He had spent unaccountable hours polishing the hard material until it was smooth and shiny, carving precious runes on it and creating its powerful hilt. He put so much love and effort into it, that the gods themselves, pleased with the results, allowed Farcon to infuse it with his soul and bestowed a blessing upon it: Everything that was forged using the hammer could only be broken by it. 
This hammer became to be known as the Hammer of Ages and it was used to create most of Dwaraman structures, untouched by the hand of time until this very day. 
His legendary abilities became so renowned that he was called upon by the mages of the distant city of Linirea. They begged him to come and help them trap an evil being that was devastating their lands and decimating their population. Farcon agreed to leave Dwaraman and cross the vast ocean to offer his help. Little did he know, this would be the last time he would feel his forge heat or feast his eyes on the treasure chambers of his beloved city. 
There are many recounts of what happened that fateful day. Some of the witnesses talk about the bravery of the dwarf, others of his courage, but they all agree that the capture of Umbra would have not been possible weren’t for his heroism and determination. The prison was forged and the being trapped, but to be able to contain it, Farcon made the ultimate sacrifice: he used the power that was harvested on the hammer to seal it, knowing this would mean his own demise. 
After this battle, Farcon undertook his last journey through the lands on Linirea until he took his last breath on the desert shores. To honor his memory a [Hammerhold](city) was created surrounding his grave, where the hammer was displayed for all to remember that a true hero lied there. 