# Mactans

Mactans is one of the three overarching antagonists of the Kingdom Rush franchise. She is one of the Ancient Spider Queens and one of the two main antagonists of . She and [Malicia](Malicia) are indirectly responsible for [Vez%27nan](Vez'nan)‘s rise as the ”big bad” and main antagonist of the entire series forward.
Appearances.
Mactans first appears in stage 11, [The%20Unseelie%20Court](The Unseelie Court). After [Malicia](Malicia) is defeated and incapacitated, Mactans suddenly descends from the sky, wraps Malicia in a web, and brings her away to the elven First City.
Mactans is later encountered in [Mactans%27%20Retreat](Mactans' Retreat). At several points, she'll descend onto the map, webbing towers. She can be tapped on to stop her short of disabling towers.
At the [Shrine%20of%20Elynie](Shrine of Elynie), Mactans is seen working with Malicia to break the shield around the Tear of Elynie, the priceless artifact that gave birth to the elves. Much like in the previous level, she will web random towers, but she can also land on a path, covering it with more web, laying [Spiderbrood](Spiderbrood) eggs (which do give [gold](gold)), and webbing any nearby soldiers (identical to the ability of Webspitter Spiders), and will also taunt the player, along with Malicia. As before, she can be tapped to prevent her from disabling towers, but she will not fail to cover the path with web, deposit eggs, or web soldiers regardless of how quickly she is tapped.
After wave 15, the shield around the Tear of Elynie is broken. Both Malicia and Mactans jump at the Tear screaming 'Mine!', causing the Tear to become corrupted and fuse them into the [Spider%20Goddess](Spider Goddess), the final boss of the campaign.
Related [Achievements](Achievements).
 IT'S A TRAP! Prevent Mactans from webbing at least 8 towers.