# Prehistoric Dwarf

Prehistoric Dwarf is an enemy found in , first encountered in [Excavation%20Gateway](Excavation Gateway).
## Overview

"Ancient Dwarves that evolved to adapt to the harsh environment they were forced into, now stronger and tougher than any other of their kind."
Prehistoric Dwarves can let out a war cry every 10 seconds if there are at least 2 Velociraptors within 400 range of them. The war cry buffs Velociraptors, increasing their Health and Damage by 50%, and their Speed by 30%. The buff lasts for 5 seconds and each war cry may empower a maximum of 5 Velociraptors.
Strategy.
Prehistoric Dwarves are an incredibly difficult threat to neutralize. Although they have no armor or magic resistance, they boast some of the highest health pools in the game and tremendous melee damage. They spawn in large numbers in later waves (either by themselves or carried by [Pterodactyl](Pterodactyls)), and quickly threaten the exit after catapulted by Venus Flytraps. To make it worse, they pose a bigger threat together with [Velociraptor](Velociraptors) as they make them run even faster and deal much more damage, allowing the dinos to eviscerate your soldiers and multiply themselves much faster.
Amplified [Blazing%20Gem](Blazing Gems) or instant kills work best to dispose of them quickly. Otherwise, focus your fire around their landing point to take them out before their assembling in dangerous numbers. To keep them from advancing, either deploy [Dark%20Knights](durable soldiers) to block them without dying in seconds, or use [Infernal%20Mage](teleport), [Goblirangs](stun), or [Ignis%20Altar](slow) to take advantage of their slow speed. [Spectral%20Mausoleum](Spectral Mausoleum) plays as a unique counter with their Possesion ability, which can stall and cripple two Dwarves at once over a forced duel, turning their high damage against their lack of armor.
You are also urged to keep them separate from Velociraptors "as much as possible". Tools like reinforcements or [Eiskalt](Eiskalt)'s Glacial Storm can help stall Prehistoric Dwarves while your other towers pick the Velociraptors off.