# Sir Gerald Lightseeker vs J.T.

"In the far north, icy wastelands of endless frost and tundra stretch for miles upon miles. With the sudden shift in the time stream, the Yetis are migrating, and our rangers have returned from across enemy lines with tales of the giant white-furred beasts and their winter wolf companions leaving a trail of destruction in their wake. Several have recently appeared through portals that the villainous [Time%20Mage](Time Mage)s incessantly conjure. While J.T., the king of the Yetis, has yet to make his presence known, I beseech you to remain on guard always! A new Ice Age may be upon us, and you might be the only thing standing between the Kingdom and a frozen future!"
Sir Gerald Lightseeker vs J.T. is the first expansion pack for the board game . It adds [Gerald%20Lightseeker](Gerald Lightseeker) as a useable hero, and sees the return of [J.T.](J.T.). The expansion also adds a new mechanic with the Ice Tokens.
Scenarios.
These scenarios are intended to be played any time after Scenario 7 has been completed in the base game.
For The King!
Sir Gerald has received a message that a northern outpost has been overrun by winter wolves and Yetis! Those abominable snowmen have trapped Sir Gerald's troops, encasing their towers in ice. Upon hearing the news, Sir Gerald rushes northward without heeding the advice of all the other heroes. In his rush to help his men, he isn't thinking straight! Go with him and make sure that no man, woman or child is left behind! The Kingdom will not last long without people like Sir Gerald Lightseeker standing fast against the forces of evil!
A Few Acres of Ice.
A wild howl fills the air and dread fills the hearts of all of the soldiers lining the tower walls. "Hold fast" Sir Gerald barks, order his troops. "'Tis only a beast, not a god - and we've killed many a beast!" Boisterous cheers go up amongst the men and women who have taken up arms to defend their Kingdom. Sir Gerald's words lend them strength for now, but will words give them courage when they face the wintry wrath of the titanic J.T.? Will words help them brave the cold?
Blackburn on Ice.
The Lord of Castle Blackburn has returned, axe in hand, during this sudden cold snap. His heavily-armoured for looms over the battlefield as he seems to life towards the defenders., eldritch energies tackling around his brutal weapon. You stare wide-eyed as Blackburn leaps and spins, his axe arcing gracefully through the air freeing any tower that it touchers. Blackburn's back, and he's gliding on ice!
Ice Ice Baby.
A frigid wind whips past the faces of the stalwart Heroes, threatening to freeze any exposed flesh. Row upon row of angry Yetis and deadly winter wolves stand ready with their goblin allies, each one determined to destroy the Kingdom. Sir Gerald surveys the enemy and then lowers his visor to shield his eyes from the elements. "Today," he cries as he brandishes his blessed blade and hefts his dazzling shield, "We will crush the Yeti threat once and for all! Today we fight to bring summer back to all of Lineria!" Cheers erupt and horns blast from atop each tower as the horde begins to surge forward to battle.