# Strategic Point

A Strategic Point is a predetermined place on the map where towers can build. When not restricted (in the [Iron%20Challenge](Iron Challenge)s), any tower can be built on an available point, and it is the goal of the game to make best use of the available towers to effectively kill enemies and stop them reaching the goal.
In , a new mechanic was added to the strategic points, a means to limit the number available in any one level. Beginning with [Crimson%20Valley](Crimson Valley) and throughout the rest of the jungle levels, some strategic points are covered in Overgrowth preventing anything from being built there. The overgrowth can be removed at a cost of 100 [gold](gold), freeing the point up. From [The%20Underpass](The Underpass) and the following underground levels, some points are covered in Rubble and will require 200 gold to clear.
In , beginning with [Northerners%27%20Outpost](Northerners' Outpost) and continuing through all of the Frozen North levels, some Strategic Points are covered with Frozen Land and require 80 gold to clear. 
In the Elite levels; [Back%20To%20The%20Rotten%20Forest](Back To The Rotten Forest), [A%20Night%20In%20The%20Swamp](A Night In The Swamp) and [The%20Ancient%20Ghosts](The Ancient Ghosts); Rotten Roots cover some Strategic Points. These roots cost 20 [gold](gold) to clear away, but the effect is only temporary. Towers built over Rotten Roots will soon become engulfed in the roots, and will require another 20 gold to free them. Trapped towers also have their attack speed halved and cannot be upgraded. Melee units are also unable to be repositioned.
In the Hammerhold DLC final level [The%20Grand%20Arena%20%28DLC%29](The Grand Arena (DLC)), the boss [Malik%20Hammerfury](Malik) is able to both destroy towers and render the Strategic Point unuseable.