# Velociraptor

Velociraptors are enemies found in in the Primal Ravage mini-campaign, first encountered in [Excavation%20Gateway](Excavation Gateway).
## Overview

"Fast and ferocious creatures from ancient ages who were on the top of the food chain, now tamed by the might of the dwarves."
Velociraptors will non- units who have less than 20% Health when attacking them, spawning a Velociraptor egg after doing so. These eggs cannot be targeted or damaged and hatch after 6 seconds, creating another Velociraptor that, unlike most other summoned units, has a bounty. Executed units will not activate their on-death effects if they have them ([Call%20Reinforcements](explo)[Oloch](ding), [Elite%20Harassers](Fury of the Twilight), etc.). Afterwards, they cannot execute another unit for 6 seconds.
Velociraptors can also be buffed by Prehistoric Dwarves, giving a 50% boost to their health and damage and a 30% boost to their speed.
Strategy.
For enemies that appear in early waves and spawn in medium numbers, velociraptors are deceptively damaging and extremely dangerous. They run fast enough to put wolves to shame and deal heavy damage to units that engage them. Worse, when they execute an unit using their ability, they lay eggs that hatch new velociraptors, similarly to [Cloud%20Stalker](Cloud Stalkers). They are even more deadly when buffed by [Prehistoric%20Dwarf](Prehistoric Dwarves) and spawn from egg nests that are very close to the exit.
To deal with them, it takes quick firepower near the exits and sturdy barracks units. [Dark%20Knights](Dark Knights) with Armor of Thorns should have almost no problem with them, unless there are too many velociraptors at a time which will take extra tower damage and Demon Goonies to slow them down. [Spectral%20Mausoleum](Spectral Mausoleum) with two medium-armored Gargoyles and good damage support is also a good counter, which can be upgraded later to counter [Prehistoric%20Dwarf](Prehistoric Dwarves) as well.
Avoid having [Shaolin%20Temple](medium)/[Bone%20Flingers](weak) blockers in the middle of the path from non-barracks towers that can summon them as they are easy pickings for egg laying.
It is heavily recommended to keep them away from [Prehistoric%20Dwarf](Prehistoric Dwarves), as their buffing ability can turn what is already a difficult cluster of Velociraptors into a green tsunami of death. 
A possessed Velociraptor that instakills an enemy will spawn an ally velociraptor. Use it to your advantage as they can be very reliable for getting an army. The easiest kills a velociraptor army can get are the [Cave%20Dwarf](Cave Dwarves) and [Warhammer%20Guard](Warhammer Guards) due to their low damage. Later waves an army of them can take out even a Prehistoric Dwarf or Geomancers in less than a second if the Venus Flytraps spit at a choke point. 