# Vez'nan vs Moloch

"Deep in the planes of Pandaemonium, the great horned demon, Moloch, reigns supreme from atop his throne of torment. Much to his demonic delight, Moloch captured the archmage Vez'nan's soul. Hoping to gain an ally against the Time Mages, you prepare for an arduous descent into the nether realms. If you promise to save his soul, Vez'nan will join you in the fight. The enemy of your enemy is supposed to be your friend after all!"
Vez'nan vs. Moloch is the second expansion pack for the board game . It adds the form of [Vez%27nan](Vez'nan) as a useable hero, and sees the return of [Moloch](Moloch). The expansion also adds three new mechanics; Fire Tokens, Hordes with Infernal Combustion and Cerberus.
Scenarios.
Blackburn's Back!
"I see that you haven't learned your lessons, mortals!" A slow, rumbling voice says from behind you. The smell of blood and metal fills the air. You turn around to see the armored hulk of Lord Blackburn slip from out of the shadows. "I was just waiting for Moloch to return home after a long day of storming the Kingdom. Won't he be surprised when I give you to him as welcome home presents?" he chuckles, his horned helm resonating with his low, evil laugh. "Say hello to my little axe!"
Heck Fire &amp; Brimstone.
"We'd better get out of here!" yells Vez'nan, as he spots the glowering eyes of the advancing horde. Cloven hooves stomp furiously and bat-like wings spread as pitchfork-wielding demons launch themselves into the sulfurous air. "Looks like Moloch's back... and he's brought friends."
Lava erupts from the earth beneath your feet and you see the great horns of Moloch outlined by flames as he bellows at you in a guttural voice "What happened to Blackburn, the incompetent ninny? I will rip your head off, Vez'nan. And then i'll do the same to your little friends, too!" he says, pointing a clawed finger at each member of your party.
"Aw heck, I like my head right where is is," Vez'nan quips, pointing his stage at you, "so you'd better know how to fight, buck-o!"
Highway to Heck.
Stretching out in front of you in the road to salvation, the pathway out of Pandaemonium. You have almost made is back to the Kingdom when the overlord of Pandaemonium calls out form behind you.
"Leaving so soon?" Moloch asks wryly. "You're got something that belongs to me and I want it back!" He puts his fingers to his lips and lets loose a shrill whistle. "Come 'ere boy!" he calls as he slaps his thigh.
A low growl fills the air and the lumbering bulk of the three-headed demon dog, Cerberus, lops out of the smoke to stand at Moloch's heel. It's lips peel back in a snarl, exposing dagger-like fangs, and the acid saliva drips to the ground, corroding the earth where it lands.
A slow smile spreads across Moloch's demonic visage. He casually tosses the beast a treat the size of a pumpkin and issues the single command, "Sic 'em!"
Vez'nan's Quest.
You have successfully fought your way out of Pandaemonium and gained Vez'nan as an ally. "I'm free from that horned fool's clutches - free at last!" shouts the archmage, his eyes lighting up with eldritch fire. "Ooooog," he says, his voice wavering and his knees buckling.. "OMG, this is an EPIC failure!" he cries. "My soul! It's gone!" He stares at his hands, hopelessly. "Moloch took my soul and he's hidden it in one of these infernal flames, dooming me to burn for eternity in this accursed pit unless we can retrieve it. I must extinguish them all or die trying! We've got to go back!"