# 21st Century (Civ3)

21st Century is a fan-made scenario for "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)" in which you play as the South Asian Union led by [Gandhi%20%28Civ3%29](Mahatnas Gandhi). The start year is based on the 2020 and 2025 time period. The map for this "Civilization III" scenario is the classic large map from the original "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)".
Introduction.
Your goal is the enlargement of your federation by military means. You will need to conquer both Tibet and the Sinkiang regions of China in order for the Chinese to surrender. You can also attack the Arab League and allied states. One of the allied states of the Arab League is Afghanistan and this is considered by British geographers to be considered part of South Asia. It is advised that you invade China until they surrender then decide to invade the Arab League and conquer Afghanistan but you might also have to Conquer Pakistan if you have not beat part one of this scenario.
Strategy.
If you can mobilize your entire army out of China and onto the border of Afghanistan than you will be able to take it.  The name of Afghanistan's city is Kabul. Kabul's neighbors are Islamibad (North Pakistan), Karachi (South Pakistan), Tibet (Lhasa), Sinkiang (Urumchi).
History.
Formerly in the 20th Century Scenario your Country only got to control India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Sikim, Bangladesh. Now in this scenario you also get control of Pakistan. Pakistan is no longer considered an Arab League and Allies Allied Nation-State. Now it is a South Asian Union Allied Nation-state.  According to Babylon 5 Chronology in the year 2080 the later part of World War III occurs and it involved the South Asians Civilization. At some point in the future the Arab League and Allied states will rename themselves to something religious like Islamic something or other. They will be Allied to Indonesia Consortium which will attack the remaining South East Asia Nation-States. Going by monthly the game lasts until 2125 if there are more than 1200 game turns. The Australians will be allied to the South Asian Union. The only thing is on this Scenario Australia is allied to the European Union.