# 4X

4X (abbreviation of "Explore, Expand, Exploit, Exterminate") are a subgenre of strategy-based computer and [board%20game](board game)s, and include both [Turn-based%20strategy](turn-based) and real-time strategy. The [gameplay](gameplay) involves building an [empire](empire). Emphasis is placed upon economic and [List%20of%20technologies](technological) development, as well as a range of non-military routes to supremacy.
The earliest 4X games borrowed ideas from board games and 1970s text-based computer games. The first 4X computer games were [turn](turn)-based, but real-time 4X games are not uncommon. Many 4X computer games were published in the mid-1990s, but were later outsold by other types of strategy games. "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](Sid Meier's Civilization)" is an important example from this formative era, and popularized the level of detail that later became a staple of the genre. In the new millennium, several 4X releases have become critically and commercially successful.
In the board (and card) game domain, 4X is less of a distinct genre, in part because of the practical constraints of components and playing time. The "[Civilization%20%281980%29](Civilization)" board game that gave rise to [Sid%20Meier](Sid Meier)'s "Civilization" computer game, for instance, has no [exploration](exploration) and no extermination. Unless extermination is targeted at [Non-player%20character](non-player entities), it tends to be either nearly impossible (because of play balance mechanisms, since player elimination is usually considered an undesirable feature) or certainly unachievable (because [victory](victory) conditions are triggered before extermination can be completed) in board games.