# Acropolis (Civ6)

The Acropolis is a unique of the [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the and can only be built on .
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in an Acropolis:
Strategy.
The Acropolis is a clear frontrunner for the title of "best piece of unique infrastructure in the game." This district is simple enough for even new players to handle properly, yet can grant a huge amount of very early on, allowing Greece under either leader to reliably unlock civics at an unmatched speed.
In terms of gaining a high adjacency bonus, the Acropolis is the polar opposite of the standard Theater Square. The Acropolis gains +1 per adjacent , and +1 additional (+2 in total) if next to a City Center. Note that Acropolises must be built on Hills, which isn't that restrictive, but is something you should bear in mind when choosing places to settle. Since it isn't possible for an Acropolis to be adjacent to more than one City Center, it is also worth turning your attention to the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) and [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex). The Acropolis earns 2 when next to the Government Plaza and a whopping 3 when next to an Entertainment Complex. Similar to how you position the [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29](Hansa) cluster in the middle of 2 or 3 cities, or how you build a cluster as [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan), you can try to find a location that is surrounded by Hills for the Government Plaza or an Entertainment Complex, and then try to put as many Acropolises as possible around it. This is theoretically possible with a [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park) as well, but the Entertainment Complex is unlocked much sooner and the Water Park's placement requirements make this extremely troublesome.
Two wonders that you should consider building early on as Greece are the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle) and [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum). Building the Oracle boosts [Drama%20and%20Poetry%20%28Civ6%29](Drama and Poetry), the civic that unlocks the Acropolis, and in conjunction with [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) and his [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) title, it will give large bonuses to all three kinds of the district can generate. Since you want to build an early Entertainment Complex and surround it with many Acropolises and cities, it is convenient to try to build the Colosseum.
In addition to the , each Acropolis awards 1 when completed. This is particularly useful for [Pericles%20%28Civ6%29](Pericles), whose leader ability functions best when he becomes the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of many [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). Also, each Suzerainty grants 1 per turn, which allows Greece to be competitive for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory).