# Advance (Civ2)

A civilization advance (also referred to as an advance, technology, and tech) is a quantified representation of discrete scientific, technological, and/or social development in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)". A {{Link|2|Civilizations|civilization}}'s {{Link|2|Science}} sector is wholly devoted to the acquisition of advances, funded by {{Link|2|Tax rate|tax}} allocation of {{nowrap|{{Trade2}} {{Link|2|Trade (yield)|Trade}}}} income. Advances can also be acquired through {{Link|2|Diplomacy|sec=Interactions|diplomatic exchange}}, {{Link|2|Espionage|sec=Steal Technology|theft}} and {{Link|2|City|sec=Capturing cities|city conquest}}, {{Link|2|village}} reward, and/or {{Link|2|Events|scripted events}}.
A standard game features [List%20of%20advances%20in%20Civ2](89 advances) (88 standard, and a uniquely repeatable {{Link|2|Future Technology}}). The original "Civilization II" and ' include four unused advances available for {{Link|2|modding}}; ' and later versions add another seven, for a total of 100 possible definitions.
## Overview

An advance can provide varying benefits to a civilization, including access to {{Link|2|unit}}s, {{Link|2|improvement}}s, {{Link|2|Wonder}}s, alternative forms of {{Link|2|government}}, and/or special attributes such as the ability to bridge {{Link|2|river}}s and improved thrust for the {{Link|2|Spaceship}}. Advances may also render units and Wonders [Obsolete%23Civilization%20II](obsolete). Some advances do not have immediate effects, but are prerequisites to further research.
Advances are organized in a largely linear progression through four {{Link|2|era}}s, visualized as the "{{Link|2|Research screen|sec=Tech tree|technology tree}}" in the [Civilopedia](Civilopedia). An advance may have two, one, or no prerequisites. A civilization can research one advance at a time, though this does not prevent acquisition of other advances, including those for which the player does not possess their direct prerequisites.
Development and pollution.
Once a civilization acquires {{Link|2|Industrialization}}, {{Link|2|City|cities}} will generate {{Link|2|pollution}} based on their total {{Link|2|Citizen|population}}. This is further aggravated by the discovery of {{Link|2|Automobile}}, {{Link|2|Mass Production}}, and {{Link|2|Plastics}}, and mitigated by {{Link|2|Sanitation}} and {{Link|2|Environmentalism}}.
Modding.
Definitions for advances are located in the {{mono|@CIVILIZE}} section of {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Rules|Rules.txt}}; their order and internal ID tags are fixed, but name, {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Graphics|sec=Advances|category icon}}, {{Link|2|AI}} strategy, and prerequisites can be edited. {{Link|2|Plumbing}} is an unused advance defined on Line 64, with recommended prerequisites {{Link|2|Construction}} and {{Link|2|Pottery}}. In the original version of "Civilization II", three additional unused definitions are provided on Lines 91–93. The "Fantastic Worlds" [expansion%20pack](expansion pack) adds seven more options.
Certain advances have hard-coded effects, such as providing {{Link|2|government}}s; consult {{slink|Modding (Civ2)/Advances#Special effects}} for details.
The base research cost multiplier is defined as the "Tech Paradigm" at Line 12 of the {{mono|@COSMIC}} section in {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Rules|Rules.txt}}. It can also be edited from the {{Link|2|Cheat menu|Cheat Menu}} via "Scenario Parameters" ({{key|Ctrl}}+{{key|Shift}}+{{key|P}}), overriding the definition in the base rules; note that the session must be flagged as a {{Link|2|scenario}} for the Cheat Menu setting to take effect. {{Bang}}Using too small or too large a tech paradigm can cause an integer overflow at unintended intervals of a player's research, leading to sudden spikes or drops in cost progression, respectively.
Assigning advances.
The Cheat Menu includes several options relating to advances: "Technology Advance" ({{key|Shift}}+{{key|F6}}) immediately completes the selected civ's current research goal. "Edit Technologies" ({{key|Ctrl}}+{{key|Shift}}+{{key|F6}}) can add and remove specific advances from a civ's completed research. The "Edit King" menu includes additional options to modify a civilization's research goal and {{nowrap|{{Science2}} beaker}} progress. {{Bang}}Using the Edit Technologies command "Give/Take All" will grant and remove undefined/disabled advances, affecting the civilization's research [%23Cost](ramp-up cost).
Civilizations can also be given specific advances via the "{{Link|2|Events|sec=GiveTechnology|GiveTechnology}}" event macro.
Custom tech trees.
An advance with prerequisites {{mono|no, no}} or {{mono|nil, no}} cannot be selected as a research option and is hidden from tech tree navigation in the [Civilopedia](Civilopedia). An advance with prerequisites {{mono|no, nil}} cannot be researched, but can be acquired through other methods. In both instances, prerequisites are calculated normally; this can be used to give specific civilizations "hidden techs" to enable unique access to units, improvements, and special research branches.