# Aegis (CivBE)

Strategy.
The Aegis is a multipurpose ranged unit, possessing good ranged power with which to pummel enemies from behind the line of Battlesuits. Its main advantage appears when it upgrades to Tier 2 - the Aegis gains a second attack, which automatically doubles its firepower on the battlefield. In addition to that, the Aegis gains an aura that aids nearby troops healing, which makes it a great support unit.
Unit Upgrades.
In comparison to the basic units, a Tier 1 Aegis has roughly the same functionality and as a Tier 3 Ranger. A Tier 2 Aegis diverges from a typical Ranger and acts more like a powerful Executor (Tier 4)
Tier 1.
Aegis units appear at Level 7 Purity, can can be achieved at the beginning of the mid-game. Rangers at this time have slightly less and much less . While the Aegis lacks any perks to begin with, it is still quite effective during this time as it is much more durable than a typical Ranger. This can be combined with early Battlesuits or Sentinels or even Autosleds for rather fast and effective raids.
Tier 2.
Aegis gain their primary functionality through their upgrade to Tier 2. While their is unaffected and their only slightly increased, they receive rapid-fire gatlings that allow them to attack twice in a turn with Blitz, increased mobility by being able to move after attacking and also heal all nearby friendly units for +10HP. Here, they transition into a rather frail but ranged combat medic. They excel by being directly behind durable units such as Battlesuits. Their perks are also entirely focused on increasing damage, often when an enemy is wounded, so this makes them even more effective when working with durable units. With a +40% bonus and two attacks, Aegis deal 95.2 attack, which is highly respectable considering that they additionally heal friendly units and are also quite cheap.
Blitz: Can attack twice in a turn with each attack costing 1
In Universe information.
Military psychologists have made an interesting discovery: soldiers fight better when nearby military hardware is bipedal, instead of quadrupedal or vehicle-like. Research shows that soldiers think of them as sort of friendly demigods, 'The big brother with the big bad gun'. This principle was used to great effect when developing the Aegis battle platform. Although more costly and awkward than a vehicle-shaped platform, the bipedal Aegis proves much more encouraging on the battlefield than similar class weapon systems of other designs.
The Aegis is in fact a combat robot, a further development of the Battlesuit concept. However, unlike the Battlesuit, the Aegis does posses an AI - something uncharacteristic for the Purity philosophy, which distrusts on principle anything not controlled by a human mind. Still, this AI has limited functionality - it takes care of controlling all subsystems, coordinating movement and weapon reloading, and performing emergency repair procedures. Everything else, including aiming and firing the weapons, is left to the human pilot - which ensures that no malicious AI or enemy hackers could ever use the Aegis against our own. Thus Aegis units stride along with infantry, providing reassurance to friends, dread to foes, and more than enough firepower to support any advance, retreat or stand. Aegis pilots are always highly regarded by their comrades in arms, because they're always ready to draw out enemy fire and cover their more fragile colleagues.