# Aerodynamics (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The discovery of Aerodynamics ushers in a bold new realm of combat. The unit enables players to explore and fight unencumbered by the terrain around them. However, one must be sure to place s at strategic locations, so that s and other aerial units may land for refueling.
The boosts in its host city by making tourism and business easier.
Great Library entry.
Few other breakthroughs in human history changed more aspects of human life than the discovery of flight. For as long as history has been recorded, human beings have been fascinated with flight. Great thinkers, even as early as Leonardo Da Vinci, have tried to come up with devices and contraptions to enable human beings to fly. Inventors who experimented with lighter-than-air craft in the 19th century were dogged by problems of control, safety, weather and range. Military uses of lighter-than-air craft proved disastrous in World War I, as they were easily shot down. In the early 1900's, two brothers, Orville and Wilbur Wright, launched the first airplane at Kitty Hawk field in North Carolina. This craft combined an internal combustion engine with the latest understandings of aerodynamics to make the first successful flight. Although it was only in the air for 12 seconds, a modern revolution in transportation and aviation was born. Human understanding about the nature of fixed-wing flight began to dramatically increase. By World War I, the first military aircraft took to the skies and added a new dimension to warfare. The modern reliance on aircraft and its applications in the realms of transportation, commerce, industry, recreation and war cannot be understated.