# Aerodrome (Civ6)

The Aerodrome is an advanced specialty in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", dedicated to building and housing [Air%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](aircraft). It requires [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight) and must be built on flat [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain).
Buildings.
The following [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) can be built in the Aerodrome:
Strategy.
Unlike the other [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit)-oriented districts (i.e., the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) and the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor)), the Aerodrome doesn't simply "help" build aircraft; it's a prerequisite for building them. Come the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), you should designate a city as an aviation center - ideally one that has plenty of .
Another role of the Aerodrome is a base for aircraft. A single Aerodrome can hold up to 8 air units (4 in "") after all buildings have been constructed. And remember that if you do not have a base in which to place them, you will be unable to build aircraft. Although the Aerodrome is by no means the only place to house planes ([City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers) and [Airstrip%20%28Civ6%29](Airstrips) can also do that), it is still the best place to do so; you should think strategically when placing it.
Finally, the Aerodrome enables the Airlifting of units, which in turn is the fastest way to move around the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). For this to work, though, you will need to place at least two Aerodromes in your empire, and they will each need an [Airport%20%28Civ6%29](Airport). Afterward, any land units ([Military%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](military), [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Civilian](civilian), or ) can be airlifted from one Aerodrome tile to another (or any tile adjacent to the other Aerodrome). The unit that gets airlifted can no longer act within the same turn of airlifting.