# Affinities (CivBE)

Affinities are a gameplay system in ' designed to help you specialize your [Colony%20%28CivBE%29](colony) after the game begins. Strongly reminiscent of the philosophical viewpoints which shaped the [Factions%20%28SMAC%29](factions) in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)", the Affinities are answers to the question "We are beyond the limits of [Earth](Earth)-bound humanity; where do we go from here?" 's answer is prosthetics, virtual reality, and uploading. 's answer is to stay unchanged and facilitate solving Terran problems. 's answer is biological self-modification, eventually merging with the [Aliens%20%28CivBE%29](native lifeforms) to create a hive mind. In "Alpha Centauri", these correspond to the [University%20of%20Planet%20%28SMAC%29](University of Planet), [Lord%27s%20Believers%20%28SMAC%29](Lord's Believers), and [Gaia%27s%20Stepdaughters%20%28SMAC%29](Gaia's Stepdaughters) factions, respectively; the other four factions are not represented. (The ' [expansion%20pack](expansion pack) adds hybrid Affinities, but none of these correspond to SMAC factions.)
What are Affinities?
Affinities are much like [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](Ideologies) in "" in terms of direct game effects, but the way you develop them is substantially different. Ideologies were primarily set by the social development of a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) and were therefore chosen rather than developing as an emergent consequence of other choices. Affinities are increased by technological advancement and side effects of [Quests%20%28CivBE%29](quests), and making efficient use of certain [Resources%20%28CivBE%29%23Affinity%20Resources](resources) which are present near your requires advancing in particular Affinities: needs , needs , and needs . Consequently, Affinities develop primarily as a result of other choices whose "principal" benefits are unrelated.
There are also unlock systems which allow perks and upgrades for many types of [Building%20%28CivBE%29](buildings), [Units%20%28CivBE%29](unit), [Orbitals%20%28CivBE%29](satellites), etc., based on your level in the Affinities. This means that Affinities have far-reaching implications shaping what strategies are viable for your civilization.
How do you develop Affinities?
There are two main ways to develop Affinities:
[Expedition%20%28CivBE%29](Expeditions) will sometimes award Affinity points, especially when they're done in [Progenitor%20Ruin%20%28CivBE%29](Progenitor Ruins).
With sufficient Affinity points, players graduate to the next level of the given Affinity, unlocking benefits. There are no restrictions on how you develop your Affinities - you can choose to concentrate on a single one, or you may want to develop all three of them. However, the Affinity in which you have the most levels (starting at level 4) will always be considered the dominant one, and other players will react to it accordingly.
The [AI](AI) players tend to choose an Affinity that's not chosen by their neighbors, but it is also clear that specific [Sponsors%20%28CivBE%29](sponsors) have no predetermined Affinity preference.
Affinity benefits.
The advancement in Affinity levels brings your colony many benefits:
Affinity victories.
Finally, progressing enough in each Affinity (past level 13, or level 15 in "Rising Tide") opens a new path to victory: [Victory%20%28CivBE%29%23Transcendence](Transcendence) for , [Victory%20%28CivBE%29%23Promised%20Land](Promised Land) for , and [Victory%20%28CivBE%29%23Emancipation](Emancipation) for . Achieving the minimum level in the selected Affinity doesn't automatically grant you the victory, however - there are some more things to be done afterwards.
Note that there are two other victory conditions - [Victory%20%28CivBE%29%23Contact](Contact) and [Victory%20%28CivBE%29%23Domination](Domination) - which don't require progression in any specific Affinity. Go for these victories if you don't feel strongly drawn to any of the Affinities and want to keep a broad approach to developing your colony.
Hybrid Affinities.
With the arrival of the "Rising Tide" expansion, it is now possible to blend two Affinities together to gain access to an entirely new set of units that contain a few of the basic strengths of both factions as well as some new traits of their own.
"Rising Tide" has no hybrid victory conditions; however, hybrid unit upgrades will always require lower Affinity levels than pure third-tier upgrades.
Harmony-Purity.
Obsessed with purity of form beyond even the most extreme Purity purists, Harmonal Purists use extremely complex genetic technology in order to not merely improve upon man, but to accelerate his evolution into something stronger, more intelligent, and far more capable than his current existence. Harmonal Purist units usually appear very anthropomorphic and "godlike" and are painted in gilded coloring across their entire bodies save for the telltale Purist stripe of red.
Purity-Supremacy.
Simply put, Puritanical Supremacists are dedicated to the complete and total separation of man from machine and the perfection of both to the highest degree, constructing enormous robotic war machines with AI of animal-level intelligence piloted by men clad in advanced (but not powered) armor. Their unit colors are usually pure white with bluish lighting effects.
Supremacy-Harmony.
Willing to sacrifice everything in order to ensure the survival of humankind, Harmonal Supremacists replace so much of their bodies with cybernetic grafts and vat-grown alien tissue that it is almost impossible to tell where the flesh ends, the machine begins, and if the unit was human at all to begin with. Their unit colors are metallic purple with dark indigo lighting and most of their land-based mechanical units resemble the alien species of the planet.