# Age (Civ6)

Ages are a feature added to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the "" expansion pack. They reflect the general achievements of your [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) for the previous period of its development, bringing enthusiasm and vigor to its people, or otherwise doubt and despair. The new Ages system is reminiscent of the old [Golden%20Age](Golden Age) mechanics from previous "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" titles, but is greatly expanded and intertwined with the new [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) mechanics. There are now four distinct Ages ({{NormalAgeIcon6}} Normal, {{GoldenAgeIcon6}} Golden, {{DarkAgeIcon6}} Dark and {{HeroicAgeIcon6}} Heroic), each with its own gameplay effects, and instead of them changing only occasionally (as was in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)"), Ages now accompany your civilization throughout its history - from the dawn of time to the end of times. Will you remain in a Normal Age, rise to a Golden Age, or fall into a Dark Age? This will depend on what significant feats your civilization performs at any moment.
Mechanics.
The Ages system is pretty simple, but its mechanics are both important and complicated enough to require some explanation. 
Game Eras and Ages.
' introduces the concept of a Game Era: a general [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) valid for the whole world, and not only for individual players. While this may sound similar to the World Eras in ', its gameplay effect here is quite different, although individual eras still exist and their effects remain relevant. For example, [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](Roads) will upgrade for each civilization individually as soon as they reach their relevant individual era, while [City-state%20%28Civ6%29%23City-state%20quests](city-state quests) will now be updated upon starting a new World Era, instead of when entering the next individual era. Also, individual eras are considered when determining the validity of the [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23Colonial%20War](Colonial War Casus Belli).
Still, the major factor determining when the world will enter the next era remains individual progression of civilizations. The faster they progress with technological and civic research, the faster the next World Era will start. And when this happens, all civilizations will enter a new Age which reflects the Era Score they collected in the previous World Era.
You will get a 10-turn warning when the Game Era is about to change. Use it to try and earn as much Era Score as you can.
Note that all civilizations start the game in a Normal Age in the Ancient World Era.
Era Score.
While technological and social progress remains the means to progress towards the next "individual" era, the brand new Era Score is the way you progress towards the next Age. This score reflects the major achievements a civilization has managed since the last World Era ended, achievements which now bear the fanciful name "[Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Historic Moments)." Many types of game events may turn into Historic Moments - for example, establishing contacts with a [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Village), discovering a new [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Wonder), or building your civilization's [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) for the first time. At the same time, it's interesting to note that some of these events are only considered "historic" within a certain World Era. For example, finding a Tribal Village may be important enough in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), but it won't matter much in the Renaissance.
Every Historic Moment adds one or more points to your Era Score. Whenever the new World Era starts, your current Era Score is compared with both the Dark Age and Golden Age thresholds to determine the outcome:
Note that the Dark Age threshold increases if you are in a Golden Age. In other words, it becomes more difficult to achieve a Normal (and hence a Golden) Age in the next Game Era. Also, the next Age thresholds are calculated from your current Era Score at the moment of era change. This means that any points you earn above the Golden Age threshold are wasted, because they will not carry over to the next era cycle. With this in mind, whenever you earn enough points for a Golden Age you may wish to postpone any further Era Score-earning activities until the change of the Game Era - this way, they won't go to waste.
Your Era Score is always visible as a bar circling the End Turn button in the lower right corner of the game interface, as well as a number right below it. Additional details about your current Age, Era Score and some other information may be found by pressing a new button at the top right corner of the screen.
There is also a special [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) which affects Era Score earned by Historic Moments: the [Taj%20Mahal%20%28Civ6%29](Taj Mahal). Build it to boost your Era Score each time you earn 2 or more points.
There are two main gameplay effects related to the Ages system: Loyalty pressure and Dedications. 
Loyalty pressure.
The Ages system is closely related to [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty), because it is meant to reflect the enthusiasm and pride your people feel for their country and for you personally as their leader. In short, what Age you are currently in directly affects the Loyalty {{Citizen6}} Citizens exert. If you are in a Golden Age, they will exert greater than normal pressure, and if you are in a Dark Age, it will be less than normal.
Dedications.
Another mark of the new Ages system, a Dedication is a broad gameplay focus which a leader chooses for their people each time the world enters a World Era. That means that you will always enjoy a Dedication throughout the game, except at the very beginning (because you hadn't had the chance to earn Era Score yet).
Dedications' main goal is to increase your Era Score. You may choose Culture-oriented, Construction-oriented, and various other kinds of Dedications; actions which satisfy this orientation will then earn additional Era Score beyond their basic functionality. For example, you may earn points each time you construct a particular type of building, trigger a {{Eureka6}}, or convert a city to your [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion). If you choose your Dedication well, anticipating the direction in which you intend to develop, you stand a good chance of earning a significant extra score for your next Age!
There are always four different Dedications to choose from. However, since there are eleven Dedications available, specific Dedication choices depend on the era the world is currently in. That is, the particular set of Dedications available changes according to the era the world enters into. For example, Exodus of the Evangelists is available only through the first 3 eras (Classical through Renaissance), while Wish You Were Here is available only in the last 2 eras.
Each Dedication has two versions: Normal (available for Normal and Dark Ages) and Golden Age. While Normal versions are focused on helping you increase your Era Score, Golden Age Dedications are in fact powerful bonuses which act as rewards for your good performance and give you a significant edge over your competitors! For example, you may get to Purchase [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Civilian](civilian units) with {{Faith6}} - something normally impossible, even with [Religion%20%28Civ6%29%23Beliefs](Religious Beliefs)! Note, however, that Golden Age versions do not help you increase Era Score (except when playing as [Georgian%20%28Civ6%29](Georgia)). This makes it even more difficult to achieve another Golden Age, or even maintain a Normal Age in the next game era.
Here follows a list of Dedications, their effects, and the World Eras they are available. In the [%23Strategy](Strategy) section below you can also find a discussion of the best uses of each Golden Age Dedication bonus.
Types of Ages.
Normal Age.
A {{NormalAgeIcon6}} Normal Age is, as the name suggests, the most common Age - when your people are neither inspired nor despairing. By default, it is earned with an Era Score of 12; each Golden Age you've had increases this threshold by 5, and each Dark Age you've had decreases it by 5. Also, each city you have at the start of the age increases this threshold by 1. Each {{Citizen6}} Citizen exerts the normal amount of Loyalty pressure (1), and Dedications have only their basic bonuses.
During a Normal Age, the globe icon on the lower right corner of the screen will appear to be blue-colored as it typically appears.
Golden Age.
A {{GoldenAgeIcon6}} Golden Age may be earned when your Era Score is above the Golden Age threshold at the end of an era. This threshold is computed by taking your current Era Score and adding the following:
Your people are inspired by the great achievements of your civilization in the past era and are especially dedicated to your empire during a Golden Age, both ensuring that your cities will remain loyal and that foreign cities will be tempted to join you. Each {{Citizen6}} Citizen exerts 1.5 points of Loyalty pressure, and Dedications earn special powerful bonuses. Note that while you're in a Golden Age, the Era Score thresholds for Normal and Golden Ages increase, making it more difficult to earn either such Age in the subsequent era.
During a Golden Age, the globe icon for the next turn changes to have a glow with a golden color, and the visuals for the game map become brighter.
Dark Age.
A {{DarkAgeIcon6}} Dark Age happens when your Era Score is too low to pass the Dark Age threshold. This is a time that tests your subjects' loyalty and honor - they lose faith in your leadership and are more easily tempted to defect to other empires (meaning that their Loyalty falls to 0.5 per {{Citizen6}} Citizen). You will have to take extra steps to ensure this doesn't happen, and that your empire doesn't fall apart under the weight of your failures as its leader.
Dark Ages are trying times, but they are also times of opportunities. First, you gain access to special Dark Age [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Cards), which can help you weather the storm (albeit at a price). Second, the next Dark Age threshold is lowered, making it easier to achieve at least a Normal Age in the next era. Third, if you surpass expectations and actually manage to fill the Golden Age meter for the next era, you will gain a Heroic Age!
During a Dark Age, the globe icon for the next turn becomes black-colored, and the visuals for the game map get darkened.
Heroic Age.
A {{HeroicAgeIcon6}} Heroic Age is proof of (and a reward for) the resilience and industriousness of your civilization in overcoming the challenges of a Dark Age. It is earned when you fill the Golden Age meter while in a Dark Age (which is actually easier, since the thresholds are lower).
When moving to the next era, you will get the Loyalty bonus of a Golden Age, but instead of receiving one Golden Age Dedication bonus, you receive three! Needless to say, you will get a huge gameplay boost.
Strategy.
The brand new Ages/World Eras system introduces a nice overlay of additional sophistication to an already complicated game. Although according to the developers its main function should be to complement the Loyalty system and improve or worsen your chances of flipping foreign cities (or their chances of flipping yours), in practice the main benefit of the Era system is Golden Ages. Their special Dedication bonuses are quite powerful, and can turn the tide of the game when used in the right way.
Of course, in order to get to a Golden Age you first need to bump up your Era Score. Here is where the right Dedication (when in a Normal or Dark Age) is extremely important: you should think very carefully about the direction in which the gameplay will take you over the next few dozen turns. For example, if you're setting up your first couple of cities, it is likely you will be building {{District6}}s, and so Monumentality will help you earn extra points. If, on the other hand, you've just set up your religion and are starting to spread it, Exodus of the Evangelists should be your choice. Similar choices in later eras let you make use of exploration or warfare as means of advancing Era Score. Match your strategy for the immediate future to the right Dedication and you're almost certain to reach a Golden Age in the next World Era!
And now let's discuss the use of the various Golden Age Dedications:
Trivia.
Here's the lead designer [Anton%20Strenger](Anton Strenger) on the subject:
Golden and Dark Ages are among the new events that can shift the course of your game’s history. They are significant, but temporary, changes to a civilization that last for an [Era%20%28Civ6%29](Era). They will open up new opportunities for players to change their strategies, and change the state of the game between the player and their rivals. Having a Golden Age affords huge bonuses to [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) and other game systems, but makes earning future Golden Ages slightly more difficult.
Having a Dark Age hurts Loyalty in your cities and makes you vulnerable, but gives you an opportunity to earn a future Golden Age more easily. It also allows the use of special Dark Age policies and opens the door for an even more powerful Heroic Age. Think of it this way: While a Golden Age provides one Dedication bonus (a powerful Golden Age effect), being in a Heroic Age lets the player earn three Dedication bonuses (making it sort of a “triple” Golden Age).
In the "Civilization VI" base game, we have the idea of a “player era” – how far a player has advanced on their [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ6](tech) or [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ6](civics tree). In this expansion, systems are very much tied to the idea of the “game era,” which is determined by individual player advancement and a few other behind-the-scenes adjustments. Think of these game eras like chapters in a book. Each has its own arc, and its own small ending, but leaves you wanting to discover the rest of the story by continuing to the next chapter. When you enter a new game era you may earn a Golden Age or a Dark Age. Which one you get is determined by your Era Score in the previous game era, a score that is increased by fulfilling certain objectives.
So while your neighbor may have been in a Golden Age last era, they may enter a Dark Age this era, opening up an opportunity for you to change your strategy. The key effect of Golden and Dark Ages: they change the Loyalty of a player’s cities. As Ages change and weak spots are exposed in empires, cities can declare independence and even change hands to new owners.