# Airport (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The Airport enables travel and business by air. Companies can ship goods via airfreight, and tourists and businesspeople can visit the . Airports are noisy and dramatically affect the ecology in which they exist, increasing in a city measurably.
Great Library entry.
Before the introduction of heavy transport monoplanes, such as the Douglas DC-3, in the late 1930s, landing strips did not need to be very long, nor did they have to be paved. In fact, airports in London (Croydon), Paris (Le Bourget) and Berlin (Tempelhof) used grass strips for both takeoff and landing. Prewar airfields were situated close to city centers, and were centers of leisure activity, often attracting more visitors than passengers. In 1939, La Guardia Airport in New York attracted nearly 250,000 visitors per month, reaching a peak of 7,000 in one day, compared with maximum daily number of only 3,000 passengers. In 1929, Berlin's airport boasted three quarters of a million visitors and prided themselves on a restaurant on the roof of the passenger terminal capable of seating 3,000 people. Airports were major centers of social activity, and the requirements of aircraft and passengers were ancillary to the need for top-shelf catering, observational decks and other services.
Modern airports grew in the 50s and 60s with the burgeoning of air travel. By the end of the 20th century, approximately 50 airports around the world handled more than 10 million passengers per year, half of which were in the United States. Six airports moved 30 million passengers a year, with O'Hare International Airport in Chicago handling 60 million. Airfields contained several long, paved runways and taxiways to accommodate large, multiple jet- and turboprop-powered transport aircraft. Extensive ground facilities, fire fighting and rescue services, passenger- and cargo-handling facilities, parking and public transit access, lighting, navigation aids all supported the operation of the airport. Other facilities, such as catering, shopping, meteorology and government inspection also became essential. Airports, for convenience's sake, needed to be within reasonable distance of a major urban area, but adequately distant, so that the environmental problems associated with large aircraft and large numbers of passengers, workers and visitors did not become untenable for the cities themselves.