# Alexander (unit) (CTP2)

Alexander is a [Unique%20unit%20%28CTP2%29](unique unit) of the [Macedonian%20%28CTP2%29](Macedonian) [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20CTP2](civilization) from the [Alexander%20the%20Great%20%28scenario%29%20%28CTP2%29](Alexander the Great) [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20CTP2](scenario) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". Depending on his condition from having fought in battles and/or his age, there are five different versions of him that can appear.
Alexander is also the default name for a male [Greek%20%28CTP2%29](Greek) leader.
Gameplay.
Alexander is much more than a unit. In this scenario, you ARE the Alexander unit, and if Alexander dies, you die, and the scenario ends. Many special events occur based on where Alexander goes and what he does. His strengths and abilities are the best in the game, and his mere presence will often cause cities to spontaneously surrender.
Not only is the survival of Alexander paramount, but his health is also vitally important. As time goes on and battle wounds add up, Alexander's maximum hit points go down in a series of steps. In addition, the first time this unit dies, the scenario does not end, but Alexander is reborn in an extremely weakened state. The second death however is final, and it causes the immediate end of the scenario.
Alexander's leadership brings out the best in his men. In this game, all units who move on the same square as Alexander are given the veteran bonus for one turn, or for as long as they remain on that square.
Great Library entry.
Alexander was born in 356 B.C., the son of King Philip of Macedonia. Philip was a great ruler, singlehandedly creating the Macedonian nation out of semi-civilized tribes on the northern fringes of Greece. He suffered many wounds and fought many battles conquering barbarians and quieting the restless city states of Greece. In the process he turned the Macedonian army into the most organized and elite army in the world. Philip made sure his son Alexander was as well trained as anyone could be in all things. Alexander was personally tutored by Aristotle, one of the most famous thinkers of all time. Even as a teenager Alexander showed remarkable military courage and skill. Once he even dramatically saved his father's life in battle. 
Days before Philip was to start an invasion of the Persian Empire, he was cruelly assassinated. Philip's death left Alexander king at only twenty-one years of age. Alexander spent the first two ruling years of his reign consolidating his power and eliminating enemies. In a series of remarkable military campaigns he proved to all that Alexander was at least the equal of his father Philip in courage, cleverness and charisma.
The rest of Alexander's life (the period covered in this scenario) will only be described briefly. Alexander fought nonstop for nearly ten years in Persia and India, winning every battle. He then came back from his far off frontiers to rest and consolidate his new empire, the largest the world had ever seen. But the many battle wounds and wear and tear of time left Alexander weak, and he died from malaria in 323 B.C. in the city of Bablyon. He died only days before the launching of a new campaign to conquer Arabia. He failed to create an heir (though his wife was pregnant with a boy when he died), and failed to name a successor. As a result, his empire broke into pieces. Alexander died at only 33 years of age. Had he lived longer perhaps his fame would have been even greater and his empire would have survived his death.