# Aliens (CivBE)

Aliens are the native lifeforms of the [Planet%20%28CivBE%29](planet) you are colonizing in "". Aliens add considerable realism to the game, and a fun additional challenge.
What Are the Aliens?
Aliens are practically an additional, neutral faction in the game. They bear some similarities to the [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians) of "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", in that they spawn constantly from fixed bases called [Alien%20Nest%20%28CivBE%29](Alien Nests) (see [%23Alien%20Nests](below)) and can harass all [Colony%20%28CivBE%29](colonies). However, there are several differences:
Relations with Aliens.
Unlike barbarians, aliens start neutral to everybody. You can't negotiate with them, because they don't seem to have conventional intelligence as we know it. However, Aliens across the planet seem to maintain some sort of connection, and they can react to long-term attitudes of a certain colony. For example, if you attack them consistently, aliens will become aggressive and start attacking you instead of merely keeping to themselves. On the other hand, if you coexist with them peacefully for prolonged periods of time, they may even turn friendly.
The icon of the aliens will change color as you interact with them. Originally it is green, but it can turn cyan, yellow, or red.
Sometimes alien nests that have been destroyed by other players in your territory will eventually respawn, provided that the owning player is still on good terms with the aliens.
Players pursuing the [Affinities%20%28CivBE%29](Affinity) are able to form a deeper bond with aliens, and eventually produce special units which mix humans with aliens. Also, the [Victory%20%28CivBE%29](victory) (Transcendence) involves your colony discovering and making contact with the underlying planet-wide alien consciousness, thus achieving a real state of harmony with the environment. Ironically, the construction of the [Mind%20Flower%20%28CivBE%29](Mind Flower) will turn all aliens on the planet aggressive (red), so a player who has multiple alien nests in close proximity with their territory needs to be on their guard in the late game.
Biomes ("Rising Tide").
In the "" [expansion%20pack](expansion pack), the biome a player selects makes a difference both aesthetically and on alien behavior.
Leash Alien ("Rising Tide").
In "Rising Tide", Leash Alien is an ability that [Explorer%20%28CivBE%29](Explorer) units gain once you have researched [Alien%20Lifeforms%20%28CivBE%29](Alien Lifeforms). Leashing takes control of the target Alien Unit. The Explorer will suffer moderate damage in the process. This move requires level 3 in . Leashing cannot be used on Colossal Alien Units until you have researched [Alien%20Domestication%20%28CivBE%29](Alien Domestication).
Strategy.
There are two viable strategies for dealing with Aliens, and it is rather tied to your Affinity choice. You can take a very militant stance towards the aliens, but you need to be aware that they will become highly aggressive towards you. If you provoke them enough, you will have to deal with Siege Worms before you are able to handle them. The aliens actually behave much more as an independent faction, and as such attacking any alien makes them all more hostile towards you, but also the other factions. Due to this, some diplomatic issues will arise from killing aliens.
That being said the strategy can have huge benefits. Killing Aliens will provide your units with a treasure trove of experience, and once you have taken the [Virtues%20%28CivBE%29](Virtue) "Scavenging", you receive 100% of a defeated alien lifeform's strength as science points, and 60 science points from destroying an alien nest. It would be beneficial to pair this with the Purity affinity, as they have specific anti-alien bonuses. In addition all factions can, by researching Ecology, build the [Ultrasonic%20Fence%20%28CivBE%29](Ultrasonic fence building), which prevents aliens from moving within 2 tiles of any city. It also comes with a Quest Decision that appears after the first one is built, allowing you to protect your trade units from attacks.
Alien combat strength is fixed, i.e. they will be very dangerous in the early game, somewhat dangerous in the middle game, and not dangerous at all in the endgame. The two major units, the Siege Worm and the Kraken, will remain threats almost until the end for solitary units.
Another possibility is to be more harmonious with the aliens, killing them only when they're making trouble (for example by consistently raiding Trade routes), and only clearing out nests if it is absolutely imperative to expansion and resources acquisition. Another argument for being more passive is that, generally, the aliens will leave you alone if you don't kill them and do not move within 2 tiles of a nest. The big problem with this strategy is the aliens raiding your Trade routes - they seem to like doing that, even if you haven't attacked them for a long while. Fortunately, you can use the special quest for the [Ultrasonic%20Fence%20%28CivBE%29](Ultrasonic Fence), which will prevent aliens from attacking your trading units.
Additionally, allowing alien nests to persist while inside your borders without provocation will eventually lead to their icons going cyan, and the aliens will become friendly. This state of friendship will also link any resources the aliens have under their nests without the need to improve it. While directly opposed to the affinity, and players will essentially gain a passive defense force if they pursue this, and the player will get access to vital resources they otherwise wouldn't have. However, leaving the nests in place means that the resource can't be developed to boost your city's yield and pillaging a nest to remove it will have a negative impact on Alien opinion. There seems to be no way to tell how close you are to a change of state of Alien relations.
It's worth noting that Lifeform Sensor, the [Spacecraft%20%28CivBE%29](spacecraft) option, has obvious synergy with all nest-based strategies.
Generally, factions should pursue extermination, factions should pursue co-existence, and factions should do what suits their situation.