# Alliance (Civ6)

In "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" and its expansions, an {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance is the next step in [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](diplomacy) when you are ready to take your friendly relationship with another [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) to the next level. {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliances become possible after developing the [Civil%20Service%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Service) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic). You can only enter into an {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance with a civ if you and its [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leader) are Declared Friends.
Vanilla.
Allies automatically have Open Borders and Shared Visibility, which means you can see everything your ally's [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) see. In addition, you can make Research Agreements and Defensive Pacts. You cannot take hostile action against an ally.
An {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance helps improve the relationship between two civilizations, and it makes proposed deals and other forms of trade go smoothly.
"Rise and Fall" onward.
In "", {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliances have been broken down into different types and present much greater possibilities. Research Agreements and Defensive Pacts are incorporated into the new {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance mechanics.
There are now five different types of {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliances: Research, Military, Economic, Cultural, and Religious, each of which has its own specific benefits. As the {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance continues, its benefits will increase. Maintaining an {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance with a player accrues Alliance Points over time, and when enough points have been accumulated, your {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance level with this player increases. There are three levels, each one offering more powerful benefits which stack with the earlier ones. You can speed up Alliance Point accumulation by sending {{TradeRoute6}}s to or receiving them from your ally, or by using specific [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards).
Each {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance type is unique; this means that each civilization may maintain a particular type of {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance with only one other civ at a time. For example, if you intend to enter into a Cultural Alliance with Civilization A, you cannot do so if either you or they already have a Cultural Alliance with Civilization B. You will either have to wait until the {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliances expire, or choose a different type of {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance.
Another difference from [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" is that allies do not automatically gain Shared Visibility. You still gain visibility from units, but territorial visibility will only be available under other circumstances (e.g. upon reaching Level 2 of a Military Alliance, or when participating in an [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](Emergency)). Also, allies now automatically sign a Defensive Pact and will come to each other's aid if a third party engages in hostilities against either one (and Defensive Pacts can no longer be formed outside of {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliances).
This system encourages entering into {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliances and maintaining them for as long as possible - this way, you will be able to build up trust with your ally and level up the {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance to reap its greatest benefits. What's more, in "" each active {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance gives you +1 {{DiplomaticFavor6}} per turn per level, which can turn into a major boost to a civilization's diplomatic power.
Of course, in order to maintain {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliances you will have to stay on good terms with other leaders. A leader you've offended (or who has many {{Grievances6}} against you in "Gathering Storm") will not want to become Declared Friends with you, which will prevent you from forming an {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance with him or her.
Alliance Points.
In order to reach higher {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance levels, you need to accrue enough Alliance Points (80 to reach Level 2 and 160 more to reach Level 3 on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed)). Two civilizations that are allies of one another always get 1 Alliance Point per turn, but there are ways to help speed up this process:
As outlined above, all of these actions have symmetric effects on both parties of the {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance, so they will always both accrue Alliance Points at the same rate and reach higher {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance levels at the same time.
An {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance expires after 30 turns on Standard speed, at which point it needs to be proposed and signed again (after you and your former ally have renewed your declaration of friendship). If historical allies (i.e. civilizations that had at least a Level 2 {{AllianceIcon6}} Alliance in the past) denounce or declare war on one another, a Betrayal [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](Emergency) will be triggered.