# Alpha Centauri strategy guide by Dream Focus

Strategy guide by . If you have your own strategy guide please make a new file for it and link to it at [List%20of%20strategy%20guides%20for%20Alpha%20Centauri](List of strategy guides for Alpha Centauri).
Different factions have different strategies they follow. What works for one, may not work as well for others.
Social engineering.
Before making changes in your social engineering menu, you should be aware of which changes will cause which factions to attack you. That should always be weighed in during your decision to change something, since even if you win your conflict with them, you still had to occupy a lot of resources that could've been used for base building and teching up. If it is someone already in vendetta against you, or too weak to matter, or someone you want to attack, you can fight them without taking a hit to your integrity rating, so there is no reason not to do it then.
Also note that an enemy can not attack you if they are busy fighting someone else at the moment. Example: Morgan won't break off a pact with you when you switch to Green economics if he is needing your help to fight his ongoing war with the Hive.
Some factions are more likely to attack you than others if you use a setting that is against what they stand for, depending on their characteristic being aggressive, erratic, or pacifist.
Capturing water bases.
Even after killing all the defensive units inside a water base with your aircraft, you still can not capture it without a unit that has amphibious ability or a warship. A transport ship can not capture it, nor can the units you attempt to unload in it, unless one of them is amphibious. Even when a water base is built against the land, units on the land can not capture it, without the amphibious ability. They can however enter it after it has been captured by yourself or an ally. Units you can send by airdrop, can not land on water, or a water base. [Native%20life%20%28SMAC%29](Isle of the deep) are able to capture an enemy base.
Faction surrendering.
When the war is going badly against them, some faction leaders will try to make peace with you. Sometimes they ask for something in return, and at other times they freely agree to a truce. If you reject this, and they are desperate enough, they will offer you energy credits(money) or tech. If you then reject that offer as well, they may admit abject loss and surrender to you. This allows you to control their vote, force them to hand over any technology they research, and you can even force them to give you bases at times. Having another faction under your control means they can send out probe teams to steal tech from other factions, and if they get caught it doesn't affect you any, and you still get any technology they steal.
Environmental impact.
You shouldn't try to keep your environmental impact to a minimum in the early stages of the game. Instead get it as high as possible, as quickly as possible. The first time the planet tries something, it'll just make fungus appear, and destroy a mine or a road. Your environmental damage score is now half what it was. After the second fungus bloom attack, its now at zero, even when you rebuild and do everything you were doing before. The planet has become used to you at that amount. It is therefor much better to have your rating as high as possible before the first bloom. The more bore holes, the better.
You should be aware that if you heat up the planet too much, the world will flood. Once the required technology has been researched, you can put it to a planetary vote to raise a solar shield and cool the planet off again. You can also use terraformers to raise the elevation of the land around your bases. Bases with pressure domes built can become sea bases if the water level rises, while those without it will be lost to the sea. This can be used as a way to attack your enemy.
Building various base facilities will lower your environmental impact. This isn't based on a set number, but instead is relevant to how much damage you are currently doing. So building all of them when your base is doing no harm at all, totally wastes them. Try to at least switch to doing as much harm as possible, before the final turn when one of these things is completed.
Supply crawlers.
Once you have researched Industrial Automation, you can start to produce supply crawlers. They do not require any minerals to support them. They can be placed anywhere not already being worked by another crawler or base personal, and send back either nutrients, minerals, or energy(choose whichever one you want). They can do this from anywhere on the map. You can also send them to another base, and have them ferry over one nutrient, mineral, or energy from that base each turn, or you can sacrifice them to help with a secret project being done at the destination base. The amount of minerals used to build them, is the exact amount given to the secret project. So in essence, you have multiple bases working on the same secret project at once, just be sending crawlers to them. If you have mag tubes connecting bases, then this speeds up the building of secret projects even more, as crawlers can get there as soon as they are constructed.
When building a new base, you can send supply crawlers along with the colony pod, and after the base is established, right click on them from the base screen and have them supported from there. You can also have them choose to transfer resources from the base they are currently assigned to.
Even after they've moved, you can still select a supply crawler and set what resource you want it to send back to base. If multiple units are on that same tile though, you have to select the base, and then click the supply crawler you want listed in the bottom right corner with the other units assigned to that base, then choose activate unit, and you can then set it to what you want.
Gaining technology.
Gaining technology is how you stay ahead of your competition, and dominate them. You can gain it through three methods.
Note: When choosing what technology to research next, it limits you by a secret formula. You might want to research Doctrine Air Power, knowing you have Synthetic Fossil Fuels and Doctrine: Flexibility, the two requirements for it, but when it comes time to choose a new research goal, that isn't listed there at all. I had this happen before, then trade something with an AI player for Optical Computers, and then I clicked F2 and changed my research goal, and Air Power was now listed there as an option. Whether any specific technology is needed, or it just the number of technologies you have total, or the number of each type, no one knows.
New bases.
Building new bases is important. The secret project Planetary Transit System will allow any new base to start with three workers in it. If you don't have enough food about to feed them, some will abandon you. Having another unit move along with your colony pod works well for protecting it as well as being there to act as a police unit, thus allowing you to use all three workers to harvest resources, instead of having to have one act as a doctor or empath to prevent a drone riot.
Sometimes the extra time it takes to make a drop pod ability for a colony pod you are building, is far less than the time it would take to move it somewhere on its own. If you do a drop outside of a base, you take 20% health damage, and you can drop a maximum of 8 tiles away. Losing health doesn't matter as long as the pod isn't destroyed.
Resources.
Focus on producing more food(nutrients) to increase your base population, more minerals for unit and base facilities production, and energy for research or saved as energy credits to speed up the construction of something during an emergency. Energy can also be used to buy technology from other factions. You can use supply crawlers to send resources from one base to another.
There is a terraforming command to drill down and make a river appear at that spot. This gives a one-point energy bonus to that spot. You can even do this where you have boreholes at, getting 7 energy instead of 6 from them.
Probe teams.
Enemy probe teams can prevent you from getting ahead of everyone else in the tech race, as well as causing other problems. There are places where you can stop them from sneaking in, just by having units set out to block their path. You can place bases in strategic choke areas, to block in a faction that sends its probe teams up through that route to get at you.
Probe teams are an effective way of getting your strongest opponents to attack each other, thus weakening one another, while you have time to get ahead. Simply do something, and have them make it look like someone else did it instead. If detected, the one you attacked will go to war with you, so either save your game before hand and reset and try again, or just do this for someone you want to war with. This is better than attacking them first, since you can remain noble. Your nobility rating helps make certain other factions trust you. Using probe teams to spy, sabotage, assassinate, and steal technology is a perfectly acceptable act, while attacking someone with other units is an act of war.
If ever another faction suddenly seems angry and declares vendetta upon you, its usually because of this reason. Sometimes you will receive word that one faction was caught trying to frame you by hacking into another's network and blaming you, and you will be given the option to declare vendetta or ignore the incident. Surprisingly, perhaps because of a bug/oversight in the program, the faction they initially attacked with the probe team will not become angry or declare vendetta upon the attacker, and will even maintain a pact with them.
Ending and starting conflict painlessly.
Ending.
There are times when at the start of a conflict, you can take over any enemy base whatsoever, and they will contact you asking for peace. They will usually demand you join them in war against an enemy of theirs, then after rejecting that, they demand money or technology first, then when you reject that offer, they finally offer a blood truce.
Starting.
You can sometimes demand they withdraw military units from your territory, even when they have none anywhere near you, and they'll get ticked off and declare vendetta against you. You thereby keep your noble rating since they declared vendetta upon you, not the other way around. You can then take your prepared military units, and attack one of their bases, capturing one of their techs in the process, and then asking for peace if the they are much stronger than you, or you just don't want to bother with war for whatever reason. You can also keep on fighting, destroying units and infrastructure, and capturing bases, and ask for peace later on.
Avoiding warfare.
Avoiding unnecessary warfare early on is important, unless you can eliminate your enemy quick and effortlessly of course. If you are constantly producing military units to fight your enemy, who is doing much the same, then that's resources you could be using to do other things such as:
Also, while you are at war wasting resources on unit production, the other factions will be zooming past you producing these other things and advancing their society.
Trading bases.
If you capture a base you know you don't have the units to hold, you can contact another faction and trade it for a base in a different area. You can also give it to them if you must. This also allows you to have another faction next to your enemy, to invite conflict between them, and also allow them a chance for their probe teams to steal each other's technology.
Stockpiling energy.
If you put 100% of you energy production into Labs, then you might be using more energy than you have coming in. If your reserves are ever too low to pay this amount, then a base facility from one of your bases is destroyed automatically to produce the energy necessary to pay it. Having one base research the [Secret%20Projects%20%28SMAC%29](Secret Projects) [List%20of%20Secret%20Projects%20%28SMAC%29%23Merchant%20Exchange](Merchant Exchange)(plus one energy for each square being worked) and [List%20of%20Secret%20Projects%20%28SMAC%29%23Longevity%20Vaccine](Longevity Vaccine) (+50% energy for base stockpiling energy) helps greatly. So does using supply crawlers to grab energy. You can even build bore holes outside of your base's range of control, and have supply crawlers tap energy from each, getting 6 if you researched the proper technology, 7 if you use your terraformers to drill to aquafier, and more so if you build on an energy bonus.
Having more energy stockpiled is useful for speeding up production of things during an emergency, buying technology from others(the more you have, the more they try to charge you) and for use in mind control against your enemy.
Tree farms, and hybrid forests.
Tree farms and hybrid forests only eliminate [Ecological%20damage%20%28SMAC%29](Ecological Damage) done by terraforming. But almost all the ecological damage you are doing is from harvesting minerals so it won't make any large difference. If you have several bore holes about your base, it'll help slightly.
Diplomacy.
If you right click on the names of all the other faction leaders, you can see what mood they are in. If they are "belligerent" then the next turn they will break a pact they have with you, or even declare war upon you. Talking to someone you have in a pact, downgrades them from "belligerent" to "seething". You may have to do this each turn with that person, to keep them in a pact with you.
Sometimes an enemy will demand a tech, and declare vendetta against you if you refuse. Once again, check their mood. If they are belligerent, its something to worry about, otherwise you can just blow them off, they not ready to actually do anything. Sometimes you can offer to trade a tech with them, or sell it to them for some credits. This is sometimes better than having to fight a costly war, or worse yet hand over the tech free of charge to avoid said war.
Gaians and Cult of Planet factions.
The Gaians and Cultist both start with a higher planet rating than anyone else, and have a good chance of capturing mind worms they encounter right away. The Gaians also can get two nutrients from each fungus square right from the start.
Morgans.
The Morgans are good at producing energy, allowing them to research things faster, and have energy credits to use for emergency rush purchases.
Lucky start.
Sometimes you have an opponent who starts with monoliths nearby, and thus has an enormous advantage. They can instantly heal any unit by touching them, promote their unit one level the first time they touch it, and use it to get 2 nutrients, 2 minerals, and 2 energy. You might also have someone start with multiple mineral deposits in range of one base, or other advantages, meanwhile you end up stuck with nothing but fungus everywhere. All random luck. The first faction you meet might want to be friends and trade technology and form a pact with you, or they might attack you straight away.