# Amani (Diplomat) (Civ6)

Amani, otherwise known as The Diplomat, is one of the {{Link6|Governor}}s introduced in "". She excels at diplomacy with [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states), and is also capable of swaying the [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) of others to your favor.
Strategy.
Skilled in gaining support for your civilization, and spreading its influence to nearby [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities). Amani is the only governor that can be given foreign assignment in a city-state.
Unlike all the other Governors, Amani has no hard bonuses towards main statistics such as {{Gold6}}, {{Food6}}, {{Production6}}, {{Science6}}, {{Culture6}}, or {{Faith6}}, only giving {{Amenities6}} to a city once given the Promoter promotion. Despite this, she is often the first Governor selected by most players, and almost always the first Governor selected by the [AI](AI). This is obviously due to her Messenger title where she acts as two {{Envoy6}}s. Civilizations controlled by humans and AI alike find that establishing Amani in one of the first city-states they meet is a great idea because those city-states are unlikely to have met any other major civilization just yet, granting them a free {{Envoy6}}. Once Amani is established, they will instantly gain [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain status) of that city-state, which also increases [Historic%20Moments%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score). However, after this early use of Amani, most players generally do not promote Amani, instead opting for upgrading or obtaining other Governors.
This doesn't make Amani useless, however. Her Emissary promotion can assist in flipping enemy cities to you, so that you may not need to declare war, while Prestige does the opposite. Affluence is not so useful, unless a city-state across the map has many Luxury resources that you do not possess (yet). Promoter is not a promotion many will take, and its only main use is during wartime if a city is undergoing significant [War%20weariness%20%28Civ6%29](war weariness penalties). Finally, Puppeteer is one of the most powerful upgrades any Governor can obtain. By the time most civilizations have gained enough promotions to take this one, the most contested city-states can have upwards of 10 {{Envoy6}}s. Doubling the amount of {{Envoy6}}s you have in a city-state will almost always grant you the suzerain status, such that your suzerain status will almost never be removed unless another civilization places their Amani, also with the Puppeteer promotion, into the same city-state.
With "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)", Amani has two of her promotions replaced. Her Prestige promotion is given to [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor, the Castellan), and replaced with Local Informants, the only promotion applying bonuses outside of city-states. The 3 level penalty it applies to all enemy [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](spies) in the city is highly valuable in cities with strong and/or multiple {{District6}}s, and only requires 2 Governor Titles. Her Promoter promotion is replaced with the far better Foreign Investor, allowing access to a city-state's accumulating [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](Strategic resources) when not its [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain), and double the amount when you are. This promotion is especially valuable for players pursuing a Domination Victory, providing vital resources for units and power.