# Amenities (Civ6)

Amenities Mechanics.
Each [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) in your empire enjoys a certain number of {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities, which affect its {{Citizen6}} Citizens. These can be positive (increasing the population's happiness) or negative (decreasing it); however, the presence of negative {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities is quite rare, as shown below (a much more common situation is that your cities simply do not have enough {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities to meet their quota). Regardless, the sum of positive and negative {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities gives the current {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities level of each city, which is then compared to the current level needed to keep its citizens happy.
Each individual city requires certain number of {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities, determined by the city's {{Citizen6}} Population. The first 2 {{Citizen6}} Citizens of any given city do not require any {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities. The third {{Citizen6}} Citizen will require 1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity, and beyond this point every additional 2 {{Citizen6}} Citizens increase the number of {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities required for the city to be content by 1. For example, a city with a {{Citizen6}} Population of 5 or 6 will require 2 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities to be Content, while a city with a {{Citizen6}} Population of 11 or 12 will require 5. The general formula to be content is formula_1(the end result is rounded up).
In "", cities no longer start with a free {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity (except the {{Capital6}}), meaning the first two {{Citizen6}} Citizens still require an {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity. Therefore, a city with a {{Citizen6}} Population of 5 or 6 will require 3 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities to be Content, while a city with a {{Citizen6}} Population of 11 or 12 will require 6. The general formula to be content is formula_2(the end result is rounded up).
The balance between {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities required and {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities available determines the current level of satisfaction for this city, as detailed in the table below.
Positive Sources of Amenities.
Luxury Resources.
As in all "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games, [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](Luxury Resources) are one of the main sources of contentment for your people. However, the system has been reworked substantially in "Civilization VI", and Luxury Resources no longer affect your entire empire. Each unique Luxury Resource now provides +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity to up to 4 cities (or 6, in some special cases). Multiple copies of any given Luxury Resource do not affect more cities, so feel free to trade away extra Luxuries for other ones your civilization does not have access to. Note that the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus of [Buenos%20Aires%20%28Civ6%29](Buenos Aires) allows your Bonus Resources to provide {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities as if they were Luxury Resources.
Entertainment.
One of the more important sources of {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities is Entertainment, made possible by the [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) (and the [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park) as of "") and its buildings. Note that for basic buildings, the effect is merely local (i.e., will supply {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities only to its parent city), while the more advanced buildings will spread their effect to all cities whose [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers) are located up to 6 tiles (9 tiles for Water Park buildings) from the district. The mechanics are similar to the regional effects of advanced [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) buildings, so you can use the same logic here.
The Entertainment Complex and the Water Park provide an initial +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity each, while their buildings, the [Arena%20%28Civ6%29](Arena), [Zoo%20%28Civ6%29](Zoo), and [Stadium%20%28Civ6%29](Stadium) for the Entertainment Complex, and the [Ferris%20Wheel%20%28Civ6%29](Ferris Wheel), [Aquarium%20%28Civ6%29](Aquarium), and [Aquatics%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](Aquatics Center) for the Water Park, provide +2, +1, and +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities respectively. [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazil's) unique [Street%20Carnival%20%28Civ6%29](Street Carnival) and [Copacabana%20%28Civ6%29](Copacabana) both provide +2 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities, and [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium's) unique [Hippodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Hippodrome) provides +3 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities.
"Rise and Fall" also introduces the [Shopping%20Mall%20%28Civ6%29](Shopping Mall), which can be built in a [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) and provides +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity. Note that a Shopping Mall cannot be built in a city that has a Neighborhood with a [Food%20Market%20%28Civ6%29](Food Market), and there is a limit of one Shopping Mall per city (even if it has multiple Neighborhoods).
In "Gathering Storm", Dams provide +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity, [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts) provide +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity if adjacent to a [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissure), and [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang's) [Water%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Water Works) title causes [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals) and Dams in the city in which she is established to provide an additional +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity.
Wonders.
Some [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) also supply {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities.
Civics.
Another frequent source of positive {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities is your [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government)...or more accurately, the [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) you currently have slotted in it. Most of these apply only to bigger cities — that is, those which have more than a certain number of {{District6}}s.
Great People.
Although there isn't a specific type of {{GreatPerson6}} dedicated to providing {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities, some specific {{GreatPeople6}} can be retired to permanently increase {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities in a city, while others create unique [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](Luxury Resources) instead.
Civilization and leader abilities.
There are many civilizations and leaders which provide their citizens with additional {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities:
Religion.
There are many Religious [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29](Beliefs) which provide {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities to the cities who follow their Religion. Note that they will only act if the city is actually following the Religion "at the moment".
National Parks.
[National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) are a special type of late-game [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement) whose secondary effect increases {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities. When established by [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists), they will provide +2 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities to the city whose territory they are in, and +1 {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenity to the four closest cities besides this one.
Improvements.
"Rise and Fall" and "Gathering Storm" introduce improvements that generate {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities:
Negative Sources of Amenities.
War weariness.
When your civilization has been at war for too long, your citizens become tired of your [Warmongering%20%28Civ6%29](warmongering) (just like other civs' leaders). This is manifested as certain amount of negative {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities that will affect your cities, preferably cities that are not founded by you and ones that near the battlefront. [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander's) [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedon) does not suffer from this, and civilizations fighting the peaceable [Gandhi%20%28Civ6%29](Gandhi) are doubly affected by this.
Bankruptcy.
Whenever your treasury reaches 0, and you have a negative {{Gold6}} flow, your citizens will become discontented. This again manifests as a certain amount of negative {{AmenitiesIcon6}} Amenities - specifically, 1 per each 10 {{Gold6}} negative flow you have.