# American (Civ5)

The American people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique abilities) of the Americans aren't particularly interesting, or aimed at a particular [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) type. The extra sight on [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) helps a lot with early scouting (because they're able to see farther than other units and thus spot [Ancient%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruins) and [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ5%29](natural wonders) more easily), and the reduced price for purchasing tiles allows them to expand their [Borders%20%28Civ5%29](borders) more easily when needed - for example, when there's tile with a particular [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resource) they want right away. However, they still need to purchase those tiles, and the natural border expansion remains unchanged, which makes the similar ability of the [Shoshone%20%28Civ5%29](Shoshone) much more useful.
The Americans become very powerful only in the middle and late game, thanks to their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units). First, the [Minuteman%20%28Civ5%29](Minuteman), available in the early [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance Era), is the most mobile infantry unit in the whole game, able to move like a [Scout%20%28Civ5%29](Scout) through any [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) and thus reach good positions well ahead of the enemy army. This nicely complements its free Drill I [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion), making the Minuteman a formidable force in rough terrain. The Woodsman promotion and Altitude Training ([Mt.%20Kilimanjaro%20%28Civ5%29](Mt. Kilimanjaro) effect) stack with its ability for double normal (open terrain) speed in wooded and hilly terrain, respectively. If that is not enough, with each kill, it contributes counter points equal to the Combat Strength of its enemy. All of these promotions and great abilities transfer on upgrade, continuing to give the Americans an important edge in later conflicts!
Their second unique unit, the [B17%20%28Civ5%29](B17), becomes available early in the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Atomic Era). It is far more powerful than the standard [Bomber%20%28Civ5%29](Bomber) it replaces, and demonstrates well modern American military dominance. It comes with extra strength (70 vs. 65) and two free promotions that transfer when it is upgraded to a [Stealth%20Bomber%20%28Civ5%29](Stealth Bomber), Siege I and Evasion. (Note that "all" Stealth Bombers receive the free Evasion promotion.)