# American (Civ6)

The American people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29](Teddy Roosevelt), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark blue and white; [Abraham%20Lincoln%20%28Civ6%29](Abraham Lincoln), under whom their default colors are reversed; and [Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29/Rough%20Rider](Rough Rider Teddy), under whom their default colors are red and white.
The Americans' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Founding Fathers, which halves the time needed to accumulate [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government) legacy bonuses. In ', it instead converts all of their government's slots for {{DiplomaticPolicy6}} Diplomatic [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) into {{WildcardSlot6}} Wildcard slots, and in ' it also grants +1 {{DiplomaticFavor6}} per turn for each Wildcard policy slot in the current government. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [P-51%20Mustang%20%28Civ6%29](P-51 Mustang) (which replaces the [Fighter%20%28Civ6%29](Fighter)), and their unique [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) is the [Film%20Studio%20%28Civ6%29](Film Studio) (which replaces the [Broadcast%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](Broadcast Center)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:")
America is possibly better equipped than any other civilizations towards the late game. However, compared to other late game-oriented civilizations, America can defend themselves against early invasions decently well, together with their innate versatility, making them a formidable foe in all situations.
Founding Fathers.
Vanilla version.
Government legacy bonuses are a type of permanent bonuses that last throughout the entire game once you've earned them. America earns them in half the normal time, which effectively means that they double the legacy bonuses of other civilizations. 
In order to start earning the bonuses as early as possible, it is advisable to build [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monuments) as well as seek out other sources of {{Culture6}}. Spending the extra effort to trigger the applicable {{Eureka6}}s may also be worthwhile.
Since the legacy bonuses are much larger for America compared to other nations, the type of legacy bonus may affect your choice of government more than usual. Overall, this ability is not exactly underwhelming, but not powerful either. It has certain degree of versatility, since it grants you a little bit of an extra bonus regardless of which paths you take. Certainly, it is stronger later in the game when the legacy bonus has time to accumulate, but this is not something you would like to build a strategy around.
"Rise and Fall" &amp; "Gathering Storm".
In "Rise and Fall", the Founding Fathers ability was changed. Instead of providing doubled government legacy bonuses, Founding Fathers now converts all diplomatic policy slots to wildcard policy slots, regardless of government type. In "Gathering Storm", this ability is further bolstered by providing 1 {{Favor6}} for every {{WildcardSlot6}} Wildcard slot in the current government, on top of innate {{Favor6}} generated by the government form.
Although America loses its ability to reap more benefits out of government legacy bonuses, America can now enact any desired policy (assuming they have the available policy slots and the right policies) that they want. Founding Fathers now provides more freedom to America when it comes to policy selection and allows them to change the focus of their victory type. Naturally, this means you should choose the government type with the most diplomatic and wildcard slots.
Just noting how early America can start generating their {{Favor6}} shows how dominant you can be at the World Congress. For comparison, Canada can generate 2 {{Favor6}} per turn from their ability only when they have 200 {{Tourism6}}, most likely in [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) or [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), or even later, when America can do so when they unlock their first government. Most importantly, this diplomatic power does not rely on other players or luck like Canada, you can play in isolation most of the game while casually taking out foes on your home continent then making the world turn a blind eye on you with your diplomatic prowess all game long, and there is little others can do about that. Overall, this is an incredibly powerful civilization ability that has high potential throughout the entire game. A very welcome change to the vanilla America indeed.
For this reason, the [Potala%20Palace%20%28Civ6%29](Potala Palace) is a powerful wonder in the hand of America. It is just as powerful as the [Forbidden%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Forbidden City), while being a lot less competitive and having a loose placement restriction, and also grants you an invaluable Diplomatic Victory point. 
Roosevelt Corollary (Standard Teddy Roosevelt).
In early eras, this will only provide a bonus to {{Strength6}} Combat Strength to all fighting happening on your home [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent). The bonus is very significant, as you only need +30 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength relative to another unit to kill it in one shot. It essentially offsets a Deity [AI](AI)'s +4 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus, putting you on even ground. It can also be used defensively and offensively, provided the generation of the continents allow for such an opportunity. Continents are not always very intuitive. There is a specific lens in the game that clearly shows the difference between the continents, and should be used when you are scouting. It is quite possible that two adjacent tiles are, in fact, different continents. This bonus can help tremendously with every direction that America wants to go. As a late-game oriented and cultural civilization, America is notoriously hard to invade. While [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canada) or [French%20%28Civ6%29](France) can fall in one fell swoop if they do not dedicate enough {{Production6}} towards an army in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) and [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), America can feel safe when building up their infrastructure. That also means America can be much more aggressive in the early game than any other late game civilizations. A [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior)-[Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archer) rush from America, when they adopt Oligarchy and spawn next to a weak neighbor on the same continent, can be devastating. Mistaking America for a civilization that only peaks in [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) onward can be game-ending.
Finally, [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) are improved. They increase the [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) in the [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) they are built, which in turn directly increases their {{Tourism6}} output, as well as the number of people that can live in each [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood). Unfortunately, this means America will probably have to build several [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) to afford the Naturalists needed to build National Parks, although they have no bonuses towards religion. You can choose to simply not recruit a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet) to avoid dealing with the religious angle of the game, although if you do choose to recruit a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet), it may be in your best interest to choose Reliquaries as your Founder Belief, as it triples the amount of {{Faith6}} and {{Tourism6}} received from {{Relic6}} [Relics%20%28Civ6%29](Relics), doubling down on America's cultural focus. Take caution however, spreading your religion to other civilizations with their own religion will cause a breakdown in relations and a loss of tourism between your empires. The extra Appeal when having a National Park in your city applies only once, having a second National Park will not add more Appeal. Tiles with fixed Appeal values like Mountains or natural wonders do benefit from this ability. You can read below for more tips and tricks to raise the Appeal of your lands in the [%23Antiquities%20and%20Parks%20%28Bull%20Moose%20Teddy%29](Antiquities and Parks (Bull Moose Teddy)) section.
Roosevelt Corollary (Rough Rider Teddy).
Rough Rider Teddy retains the {{Strength6}} Combat Strength when fighting on home continent from standard Teddy, together with the Rough Rider unique unit. However, he will lose the incentive for a Cultural Victory and receive a strong bonus for a Diplomatic Victory instead. Every time he sends an {{Envoy6}} to a City-state, that {{Envoy6}} will count as 2 if he has a {{TradeRoute6}} either to or from that City-state, very similar to how [Tamar%20%28Civ6%29](Tamar's) leader ability functions. However, since you do not have the full freedom of sending your [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Traders) everywhere like religious units, the efficacy of this ability relies a lot on how many city-states spawn within range. Considering America does not have a coastal [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias), they most likely will use land-based {{TradeRoute6}}, which have a maximum range of 15. Sea-based {{TradeRoute6}} can later be used within a range of 30, if America has a city with sea access (a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) or coastal) and the destination city also has sea access. Note that in [Civilization%20VI]("Civilization VI"), maximum {{TradeRoute6}} range does not get extended with technological research, but with {{TradingPostIcon6}} Trading Posts. {{TradingPostIcon6}} Trading Posts are automatically constructed in the destination and source city of every finished {{TradeRoute6}}; future routes (both land and sea) that pass through these cities will have extended reach - they will effectively reset their range at the {{TradingPostIcon6}} Trading Post. At first, what you need to do is to quickly establish {{TradingPostIcon6}} Trading Posts in City-states around you, this needs to be done fast so prioritize ones that are closest to you. These City-states will then act as range extenders for your {{TradeRoute6}}, helping them reach City-states further away. Remember, this ability will be wasted if you spend your {{Envoy6}} recklessly on City-states to whom you have no {{TradeRoute6}}, so it is recommended that you wait until you establish a connection before sending over any {{Envoy6}}. This will allow you to become the master of diplomacy on your continent in the early game, so that your enemies will refrain from declaring wars on you, for fear of angering your legion of protectorates. This also means you will receive aids whenever you set your eyes on a target and want to quickly take them out. Combining this ability with the Diplomatic Policy Card [Containment%20%28Civ6%29](Containment) will make every Envoy count as 3. 
It goes without saying that maximizing the {{TradeRoute6}} capacity should be of utmost importance. Try to build Commercial Hubs as quickly as possible, but in coastal cities, build Harbors instead. The Harbor, overall, is the stronger district of the two, as it supplies {{Food6}}, {{Housing6}} and {{Production6}} beside {{Gold6}}, and it helps you establish sea-based {{TradeRoute6}}s so your influence can reach landmasses farther away.
Antiquities and Parks (Bull Moose Teddy).
Bull Moose Teddy will no longer have the +5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength when fighting on his home continent, as well as the Rough Rider, which is quite a significant blow to his militaristic prowess. Instead, he gains {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}} for Breathtaking tiles, depending on the features that those Breathtaking tiles are adjacent to. The best aspect of this ability is that you can start generate double or even triple the amount of {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}} other empires have from the very beginning of the game, without having to do anything beside settling your {{Capital6}}. Although it is heavily map-generation dependent, even if there is just one Breathtaking tile among the 7 tiles your {{Capital6}} starts out with, you can get very far ahead of everyone else in terms of [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) and [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics). Remember, a tile can gain both the {{Science6}} and the {{Culture6}} bonus if it simultaneously satisfies both conditions.
There are a couple of ways you can customize the [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) ratings of your territory. The easiest way, and available from the Ancient and Classical Era, is to build Appeal-boosting {{District6}}s. There are six {{District6}}s that boost the Appeal ratings of adjacent tiles (seven with [Vietnam%20%26amp%3B%20Kublai%20Khan%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam &amp; Kublai Khan Pack)): [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes), [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Parks), [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams), [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals), and [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserves). Undoubtedly the most important ones for Bull Moose Teddy are Holy Sites, Theater Squares, and Preserves: 
You can also boost Appeal by promoting [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang) to [Parks%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Parks and Recreation), to gain access to the [City%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](City Park) [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement). However, this is a hefty investment that is very hard to balance with other factors. It requires 4 {{GovernorTitle6}} Governor titles to get to Parks and Recreation, which means if you try to rush it, you will have to forgo [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) and [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus), which are two crucial Governors in the development of any empire. Not to mention, after unlocking City Parks, the process will require a lot of micromanagement, including continuously moving Liang around to build City Parks in as many cities as possible, which can be repetitive, especially when you have a large empire. However, if you manage to pull this off, you will effectively unlock the effects of the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower) way before [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), but since the cost of this strategy is very high, consider going for the Parks and Recreation title as a replacement after you miss out on the Eiffel Tower, rather than before. 
Nevertheless, the Eiffel Tower is the almighty Wonder for Bull Moose Teddy and its construction should be attempted every game no matter your victory type. It is so strong that it is recommended you enter the Modern Era from the bottom of the tech tree, unlike other cultural civs, not the top, even when your unique building is unlocked with [Radio%20%28Civ6%29](Radio), situated on top of the tech tree (read more below). If you have chosen a Religion with Reliquaries as well, consider also building the [Mont%20St.%20Michel%20%28Civ6%29](Mont St. Michel) and [Cristo%20Redentor%20%28Civ6%29](Cristo Redentor) as well, as both of those wonders will enhance your Relics. 
Emancipation Proclamation (Abraham Lincoln).
Under Abraham Lincoln, America's focus changes from a Cultural/Diplomatic Victory to a Domination Victory with a heavy industry/scientific backup.
His first bonus gives his cities a +3 Loyalty bonus and 2 {{Amenities6}} from [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) but a -2 Loyalty penalty from [Plantation%20%28Civ6%29](Plantations). The Loyalty aspect essentially exists only for thematic reasons and has little to no impact on gameplay; Loyalty issues are uncommon unless you're in a [Dark%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Dark Age) or close to another civ. When you reach the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) and unlock the Industrial Zone, Loyalty issues should be a thing of the past anyway, so the extra {{Amenities6}} (which existed only in the vanilla ruleset until the [Civilization%20VI%20August%202023%20Update](August 2023 Update)) are what really matter. Effectively, when Abraham Lincoln builds an Industrial Zone, he is also building an [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) of sorts. That brings extra yields and/or protection from war weariness for doing something you'll want to do anyway.
The second bonus is the free [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) he receives after constructing Industrial Zones and their buildings, which doesn't require resources when created or to maintain and receives +5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength. This bonus seems comparable to the [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantine) [Hippodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Hippodrome), but comes with its own uniqueness that is worth considering:
This simple bonus, when timed right, can turn America into a Medieval military machine in the same manner as the [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gallic) [Oppidum%20%28Civ6%29](Oppidum) rush, and has a big snowball effect. For this reason, Lincoln's America should conduct a rush to Apprenticeship, focusing early on {{Science6}} and {{Production6}}. If they keep their {{Culture6}} on pace, they can unlock [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic) and add a 15% {{Production6}} bonus when constructing those Industrial Zones. And thanks to Founding Fathers converting the Diplomatic policy slots to Wildcard policy slots, Merchant Republic's inability to slot as many Military policies won't hurt.
If Lincoln doesn't manage to take over the world in the Medieval Era, he has another opportunity to surge ahead after researching [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization), which unlocks both [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factories) and [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plants). An alternate strategy is to spend the Medieval and [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Eras) building Industrial Zones across your empire, nab [Military%20Science%20%28Civ6%29](Military Science), and then finish Factories and Power Plants in your cities, creating a wave of Line Infantry. Or you can rush [Replaceable%20Parts%20%28Civ6%29](Replaceable Parts) and do the same thing with [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry); normally you would need a technological diversion to get {{Oil6}} for these units, but not as Abraham Lincoln.
Film Studio.
The Film Studio is a unique building that plays to one of America's greatest strengths. Any city that builds it doubles its {{Tourism6}} output to civilizations that have reached the Modern Era, allowing the Americans to catapult toward a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory) in the later stages of the game. With the [Satellite%20Broadcasts%20%28Civ6%29](Satellite Broadcasts) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card), a city with a Film Studio and some or all of the [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) that hold {{Music6}} Great Works of Music (the [Bolshoi%20Theatre%20%28Civ6%29](Bolshoi Theatre), [Broadway%20%28Civ6%29](Broadway), and the [Sydney%20Opera%20House%20%28Civ6%29](Sydney Opera House)) can become a world-class tourist destination.
Whether you're playing the [vanilla](vanilla) version of the game or the expansions (i.e., with or without World Eras), the Film Studio doubles your {{Tourism6}} output only against civilizations that have discovered at least one Modern Era [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) or [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic). Therefore, this is a rare unique building that is pointless to rush, since its uniqueness is based on a condition that you don't have to satisfy. Overall, you are much better off entering the Modern Era from the bottom half of the tech tree rather than the top half - more specifically, you should enter the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) with [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel). This will maximize your chances of getting the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower), which is an extremely powerful wonder in the hands of [Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29](Teddy Roosevelt) and will also boost [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight) (the prerequisite for [Radio%20%28Civ6%29](Radio)) when constructed.
P-51 Mustang.
As the only unique air unit, the P-51 Mustang allows the Americans to rest easy if a civilization with a strong air force tries to pick a fight with them. It receives a combat bonus against other air fighter units, on top of its superior {{Strength6}} Combat Strength compared to the standard Fighter. It also earns XP 50% faster, allowing it to quickly earn {{Promotion6}}s that make it sturdier against anti-air units or more powerful against bomber units and land units. In addition, its superior flight range allows it to deploy farther away from [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), effectively extending the maximum {{Range6}} of the unit from the standard 13 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) to 15 tiles.
The P-51 Mustang, as an air unit, is vulnerable to [Battleship%20%28Civ6%29](Battleships) and [Anti-Air%20Gun%20%28Civ6%29](Anti-Air Guns). But thanks to its strength and XP bonuses, it can more easily stand up to enemy units, and even face [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazil's) fearsome [Minas%20Geraes%20%28Civ6%29](Minas Geraes) if you have enough of them with the right {{Promotion6}}s.
Air fighter units, including the P-51 Mustang, cannot be deployed to tiles in the [fog%20of%20war](fog of war) or in enemy territory even when the tile is within the deploy ({{Moves6}}) range of the unit.
Rough Rider.
The Rough Rider is an excellent unit for Roosevelt's America to train en masse as soon as it becomes available. Its high {{Strength6}} Combat Strength and mobility allow it to reach and deal with threats quickly, and the {{Culture6}} it generates by defeating invaders helps speed up America's [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) development. Even when more advanced units become available, keeping a few Armies of Rough Riders on hand to repel attacks by hostile neighbors (or deal the finishing blow to weakened attackers) can be a cost-effective and culturally beneficial way to keep the peace on the continent.
With the bonuses from Roosevelt's leader ability, the Rough Riders are perfect for facing invasions, as they can receive up to 15 extra {{Strength6}} Combat Strength if fighting on Hills on their home continent. This also means that you can finish conquering everyone else on your continent if you want to. However, you should try not to wipe them out completely, because having more opponents gives you more sources of visiting tourists to expedite your progress toward a Cultural Victory - instead, try to leave your neighbors with only one or two cities (preferably on a different continent from your {{Capital6}}), and make sure they're large enough to avoid succumbing to foreign [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) pressure if you're playing with the expansions.
Victory Types.
America is, overall, most suited to a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory). This is particularly true in vanilla, where sticking with [Classical%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Republic) throughout the early ages allows them to build up a substantial bonus to {{GreatPerson6}} generation for the rest of the game and use their National Parks and Film Studios to overrun all other civilizations with their massive {{Tourism6}} output. The Film Studio will help any leader in any version of the game, but Abraham Lincoln and Rough Rider Teddy do not gain the National Park bonuses.
In "Gathering Storm", with the new ability of generating very early {{DiplomaticFavor6}} just by adopting [Classical%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Republic) or [Autocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Autocracy) (which are the two preferred Tier 1 governments of America anyway), a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory) is definitely within reach. Rough Rider Teddy is strongest at this path, due to his {{Envoy6}} generation potential.
A [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) is possible primarily using Abraham Lincoln, who can leverage cheap, enhanced melee units into a mighty rush that stays intimidating from the Medieval to the Industrial Eras. It is also a viable choice for Rough Rider Teddy, whose {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus on his own continent can help him to conquer the civilizations there and whose eponymous Rough Rider units are situationally excellent, but these are usually not enough to make a Domination Victory as simple as other victory types; his military bonuses may be best used as a defensive shield in the peaceful pursuit of Cultural or Diplomatic Victory.
Abraham Lincoln can also pursue a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory) due to his incentive towards building up {{Production6}} infrastructure, and this is typically the best backup to a Domination game anyway as you will want {{Science6}} to unlock stronger units. Bull Moose Teddy is also suited to this path with the right surroundings. 
America doesn't have any meaningful bonuses to [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religious](Religious Victory) under any leader, and even when Bull Moose Teddy can generate plenty of {{Faith6}} with the [Earth%20Goddess%20%28Civ6%29](Earth Goddess) pantheon he should be saving it for [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists).
Counter Strategy.
Similar to France, the counter strategy against America heavily depends on which leader/persona you are playing against, since each version is significantly different in terms of approach and preferred Victory path. Standard Teddy is perhaps the most versatile, he can go for either a Domination or Cultural Victory and in "Gathering Storm" has Diplomatic Victory as a solid option too. 
Rough Rider Teddy is best at pursuing a Diplomatic Victory with a backup in Domination, Bull Moose Teddy is best at spearheading a Cultural Victory with a Scientific backup given enough {{Science6}} from high Appeal tiles, while Abraham Lincoln is strongest at Domination with a Scientific backup.
Standard Teddy Roosevelt.
Teddy's {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus on his home continent gives America an edge which helps them defend themselves until their late game bonuses kick in. The early game is still their weak point, but you'll need either technological superiority or a numbers advantage if you want to challenge Teddy on his home turf. Fortunately, you'll have plenty of time to prepare, since this is the only defensive bonus they have until the late Industrial Era.
However, if you spawn on the same continent as Teddy, you may not have as much time as you think, since 5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength can be significant enough for them to launch a surprise invasion if you are ill-prepared. You don't need to go overboard with an army if you don't plan on an offense, but pay close attention to Teddy's military strength to change your build orders accordingly.
Teddy's cultural power also comes from establishing a lot of National Parks. Since it is not always possible to deny him land, especially if you spawn on the other side of the map, try to deny him the Eiffel Tower, and to a lesser extent, the Golden Gate Bridge. If you are near Teddy, although it is dangerous to forward-settle close to him due to his {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus, this tactic may be worthwhile in the long run since this is an investment into hampering America's late game prowess.
Rough Rider Teddy.
Besides the bonus {{Strength6}} Combat Strength on his home continent, Rough Rider Teddy receives doubled {{Envoy6}}s whenever he sends one to a city-state he has a {{TradeRoute6}} to. This bonus is quite easy to counter, as the larger the {{TradeRoute6}} network is, the harder it is to defend every single {{TradeRoute6}} within the network. Plundering these {{TradeRoute6}}s will set America back, since they will have to waste {{Production6}} over and over again to train Traders, and it will also stop them from gaining a significant diplomatic foothold with the city-states. Also, since you will already be plundering these {{TradeRoute6}}s, if it is convenient for you and you are not playing as a civilization that can generate quick {{Envoy6}}s to compete with Teddy, you can try to conquer the city-states near him. Without these close "buffer" city-states, there is no way for him to send {{TradeRoute6}}s to ones farther away, since, remember, the maximum range for a land {{TradeRoute6}} is only 15 tiles, and for a civilization without coastal bias or infrastructure to support a coastal empire, land {{TradeRoute6}}s are most likely what they have to work with.
Bull Moose Teddy.
The power of Bull Moose Teddy ranges anywhere from "non-existent" to "overwhelmingly powerful," and this unpredictability limits what you can possibly strategize against him. The key answer is, once again, to try to deny them land, which is not the most satisfying answer, since it cannot always be done easily, especially if you spawn far away from him. Before the introduction of the Preserve, there are limited number of ways that Appeal can be boosted in the early game, so if Teddy is given a bad piece of land, he is basically stuck with no early game bonus (since Bull Moose Teddy does not even have the {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus). However, invading Bull Moose Teddy in the early game is very simple, since he has no defensive capability, and it takes quite a while for him to establish a technology and civic lead. Even if you don't like an aggressive playstyle, forward-settle him to box him in and limit his expansion. This is much easier to do, since this version of Teddy enjoys passive gameplay where he is left to his own devices and generates {{Culture6}} and {{Science6}} from Breathtaking tiles. It is very simple to recognize the type of land that Bull Moose Teddy likes. Just turn on your Appeal lens and put down a city in an area where most tiles are Charming or Breathtaking. Even if you are a civilization who doesn't care about Appeal, high Appeal plots of land most likely have Natural Wonders, Mountains, rivers or Woods, which can be enjoyed by everyone.
Abraham Lincoln.
As expected, playing America under Lincoln is almost the same as playing a vanilla civilization with no bonus for the first two eras. With the sole exception of their civilization ability, they don't have any exceptional ability to safeguard their early game, so your job is to play aggressively, especially when it comes to expansion. Lincoln's snowballing ability has a lot to do with how many Industrial Zones he can build at the beginning (i.e., how many cities he can settle). Also, he will most likely dedicate the first two eras to building up his infrastructure since he receives free units later - a weakness you can take advantage of by waging war on him. Even if you can't capture any cities, at least try to derail him from the usual buildup or force him to expend {{Production6}} on a standing army.
Also, the main difference between a Byzantine push and a Lincoln push is that there is a gap between the unlock of the [Hippodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Hippodrome) (the condition) and the [Tagma%20%28Civ6%29](Tagma) (the prime unit for a push), while for Lincoln, both the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) and the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) are unlocked simultaneously. Since there's no time for Lincoln to prepare for his army's arrival, his units will arrive at a rate dependent on the {{Production6}} potential of the city instead of all at once. This means that Lincoln doesn't have the same surprise factor as Byzantium and needs more time to amass enough an invasion force, especially considering that the Industrial Zone is twice as expensive as the Hippodrome. If you're Lincoln's neighbor, the moment you see the first Industrial Zone, you should treat it as a warning and start preparing a defense, which is a luxury you often don't have when playing against [Basil%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Basil II).
One weakness common to both Lincoln and Basil II is their thirst for {{Gold6}}: free units are only free in terms of resources, but still require upkeep. While this isn't a great issue when the snowball starts rolling, it is a huge problem at the beginning. Sending a group of units to Lincoln's territory to plunder {{TradeRoute6}}s and pillage [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs), [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbors), and [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvements) can be helpful.
Also like Basil, Lincoln's ability makes for a predictable military composition, which you can respond to with the shape of your army. Specifically, avoid anti-cavalry units where possible - Lincoln's melee-heavy army will eat them up.