# Anarchy (CTP2)

Anarchy is a form of [Government%20%28CTP2%29](government) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Anarchy is the brief period of lawlessness and upheaval that is brought about by a change in government. It never lasts more than four turns. All production, research, food production, and economic activity cease during this period of political upheaval.
Gameplay.
When a player changes from one to another, there is a brief period of Anarchy. During the upheaval and lawlessness that ensues, , , , and the economy slow to a crawl. Anarchy only lasts for a few turns, however, and the negative impact is usually temporary.
Great Library entry.
Anarchy was the absence of formal government. Although many philosophers and political thinkers, particularly 19th century French writer Pierre Joseph Proudhon, considered anarchy a viable alternative to government, it was historically regarded as an undesirable state of lawlessness and chaos. Its advocates considered the so-called natural laws of man to be sufficient to govern a society, but history has shown that anarchy serves few interests. 
The vacuum of power that existed after the fall of the Roman Empire was a testament to the terrible state of affairs that exists in the absence of a governing body. The military roamed the countryside commandeering supplies from farms while imperial tax collectors increased their demands. Farmers, unable to make a living abandoned their fields and went to work for large landholders, or turned to robbery. Germanic tribes settled in these abandoned lands and established power centers. Romans experienced food shortages for the first time in centuries, trade became dangerous, commerce collapsed and the complex systems that sustained the vast Roman Empire ceased for lack of support. Eventually, bitterness and hatred towards authority manifest itself in riots, massacres and widespread crime.