# Ancestral Hall (Civ6)

The Ancestral Hall is a Tier 1 [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government) [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) in "". It is built in the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and requires a Tier 1 government ([Autocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Autocracy), [Classical%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Republic), or [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy)).
Strategy.
The Ancestral Hall is a huge help if you're building a wide empire. With added toward Settlers and a free Builder in newly-founded cities, you'll be able to expand your empire and develop your land with ease. The Government Plaza is not always prioritized in the early game compared to other [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts) like [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs), and [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbors); however, if you want to pick the Ancestral Hall as your Tier 1 government building, you need to get it as soon as possible. There is nothing worse than getting this building so late that there's no open space nearby to settle.
The Ancestral Hall has great synergy with [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus') [Provision%20%28Civ6%29](Provision) title, as it allows you to spam Settlers without adversely affecting the city's growth. The [Colonization%20%28Civ6%29](Colonization) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy) is another point of synergy; the bonus from the policy stacks with the bonus from the building.
Remember that, unlike most other Government Plaza buildings, the bonus granted by this building is not empire-wide - only the city with the Government Plaza gains this 50% bonus towards Settlers. However, any new settlement (after this building is completed) will start with a free Builder, regardless of where the Settler is trained. The effect that grants a free Builder is bound to this building, not to the Settler, so if a Settler is trained before the completion of the Ancestral Hall, but founds a city after its completion, the new city still starts with a Builder. On the other hand, if a city is founded when the Ancestral Hall is pillaged, no free Builder will be granted regardless of where and when the Settler was trained.