# Ancient Age (CTP2)

The Ancient Age is one of the [Age%20%28CTP2%29](ages) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It is the first age in the base game, coming before the [Renaissance%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Renaissance Age).
The Ancient Age begins in [4000%20BC](4000 BC) and lasts until the discovery and usage of Gunpowder in the 1400s (15th century). This 5500-year period is divided into 3 eras, 2 of which are playable: Ancient, Classical, and Middle. There were no scenarios uploaded that focused solely on the Middle Ages era so it only gets a passing footnote here. This page will mainly focus on the early Ancient era, rather than the later Ancient eras.
Great Library entry.
The Ancient Age represented the first iterations of human societies. Across the world peoples began to abandon nomadic life in favor of settling near a river or fertile plain. The discovery of agriculture, in part, made settlement possible, giving people the power to expand their tribe by feeding greater numbers of people. Religion was often a major part of ancient societies, unifying people in times of struggle and uncertainty. Jurisprudence, philosophy, drama and writing enriched ancient civilizations, proving social order, entertainment and intellectual stimulation. Ancient times were marked by brutal and bloody conflicts, as nations sought to expand their territories and conquer their enemies. Advancements in bronze and iron working, ship building and siege weapons fueled an almost constant state of war throughout the last four millennia BC.