# Ancient Ruins (Civ5)

Ancient Ruins in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" are remnants of extinct civilizations, mementos of past greatness and order amid the chaos of the wilderness. Budding "contemporary" [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations) may learn a lot from these places, which will help them in their early stages. Not to be confused with [City%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](City Ruins).
Game Info.
In order to "activate" an Ancient Ruin, a player needs to move any land [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](unit) (including a civilian unit) onto the tile that contains the ruin. Alternatively, if a civilization's [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) expands onto the ruins tile, it will also activate it.
When activated, Ancient Ruins give a reward to the owner of the unit. This is a one-time bonus, after which the ruin disappears. The possible rewards from activating an Ancient Ruin are numerous:
On the easier [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ5%29](difficulties), two additional awards are possible:
If the [Speed%20%28Civ5%29](game speed) is set to Marathon, the amount of and found is greatly increased, but not the .
The choice of reward is always random, but it seems that sometimes some ruins are bound to a particular benefit - for example, unit upgrade - and will always bestow it upon activation. Also, some benefits can only be activated after receiving another Ancient Ruin benefit - the Prophecy benefit, for example, may appear only after getting the Religious artifacts from another ruin.
Finally, it seems that "all" Ancient Ruins have the full range of possible rewards; however, you cannot get a reward that you have already obtained from the last two ruins you found. This is best seen when using the [Pathfinder%20%28Civ5%29](Pathfinder's) ability, which gives direct access to each particular ruin's list of rewards.
Thanks to the new [Archaeology%20%28concept%29%20%28Civ5%29](archaeological system) in "", Ancient Ruins will later spawn [Antiquity%20Site%20%28Civ5%29](Antiquity Sites) in the locations where ruins were encountered and activated, so [Archaeologist%20%28Civ5%29](Archaeologists) may return there later to dig and uncover more valuable secrets.
Strategy.
The discovery of Ancient Ruins is vital for the early development of a civilization. The bonuses might seem small, but for the very beginning of the game they are very significant. A single additional may considerably speed up the development of a city in the first 10-30 turns. The bonus may instantly give a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](Social Policy) (or speed up acquisition of the next one). The bonus may allow for starting a Pantheon even without constructing any -generating buildings. Also, upgrading [Scout%20%28Civ5%29](Scouts) gives [Archer%20%28Civ5%29](Archers), even at a time the civilization lacks the technology to build any of these yet, while upgrading [Warrior%20%28Civ5%29](Warriors) yields the more powerful [Spearman%20%28Civ5%29](Spearmen), allowing them to more effectively fight [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians) or demand tribute from [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-States). And of course, a free technology is always welcome (although it is possible for a technology you've almost finished researching to be completed instantly, wasting some potential).
In "", the [Shoshone%20%28Civ5%29](Shoshone) civilization's [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique unit), the Pathfinder, may choose which of the rewards to activate upon entering the Ancient Ruins. Needless to say, this allows choosing the path of development, although as with normal ruins you cannot choose one that you got in your last two ruins.
All in all, the discovery and activation of Ancient Ruins will give a civilization a crucial advantage in the early game. It should become an integral part of early game exploration, and it's highly recommended, regardless of which civilization you play as, to consider building a Scout first upon settling the capital, and use it along with the initial Warrior unit to explore as far as possible, before having to turn back to defend from Barbarians.
Civilopedia entry.
Ancient Ruins are the remains of earlier long-dead civilizations. They are filled with valuable secrets - gold, maps, lost technologies and sometimes even survivors - awaiting discovery by the intrepid explorer. Rich rewards await those who first enter an Ancient Ruin.