# Anti-Ballistic Missiles (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Although it cannot protect against a , the Anti-Ballistic Missile system is failsafe measure against nuclear missile attacks.
Great Library entry.
Although late 20th-century politicians and military theorists envisioned a large-scale satellite-driven early warning and defensive engagement system for the prevention of nuclear ballistic missile attacks, such systems failed to gain widespread support from the public. In addition, technical problems, cost prohibitions and an increasingly hostile diplomatic climate forced many of these visionaries to shelve their dreams. Scientists instead opted for a distributed system, devoid of central control, that could enable a nation to concentrate anti-ballistic missile defenses around strategic cities and other sites, such as ICBM silos. The system employed both satellite- and ground-based beam weapon systems to intercept incoming missiles in combination with sophisticated electronic countermeasures designed to scramble missile targeting systems. Radar, optical and infrared detection systems formed the front line of defense and remotely coordinated the interception systems.
Public officials and social critics argued vehemently against such defense systems. However, the decline in control over the distribution of nuclear weapons technology raised the specter nuclear missile attacks not from established nations like the Soviet Union, the United States or India but from extremists and terrorists. Public opinion in favor of anti-ballistic missile systems eventually prevailed, and many cities began to adopt the defensive technology to protect themselves against an increasingly hostile and unpredictable world.