# Apostle (Civ6)

The Apostle is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](religious unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can only be purchased with in a that has a majority and a with a (or one of its replacements).
Promotions.
Apostles are also distinct from other religious units in that that they receive special s upon being purchased. This is a one-time bonus, because the Apostle cannot in fact earn [XP](XP) in any way, and thus cannot gain levels. The player may choose between three promotions randomly chosen from the pool. If the player is the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of [Yerevan%20%28Civ6%29](Yerevan), they are free to choose from the entire pool listed below. Also, if the player owns the [Mont%20St.%20Michel%20%28Civ6%29](Mont St. Michel) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder), all Apostles automatically receive the [Martyr%20%28Civ6%29](Martyr) promotion in addition to another one they choose normally. This is retroactive, so existing Apostles will also receive the promotion.
When using the [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor) [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha's) Level 3 title, [Patron%20Saint%20%28Civ6%29](Patron Saint), Apostles trained in the city that Moksha is assigned to can receive one extra promotion when receiving their first promotion. This ability stacks with Mont St. Michel, making this the only way to obtain Level 3 Apostles legitimately in the game. This ability also stacks with Yerevan's Suzerain bonus, allowing the player to freely choose up to two promotions from the entire pool listed below.
Strategy.
Apostles are much more expensive than [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries), but are much more versatile. They not only complement their Religion by adding new [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29](Beliefs) to it, but also spearhead its spread by being capable of attacking religious units of other Religions. In fact, the Apostle is the main fighter for a religion, both because of its greater Religious Strength compared to other units, and because of the promotions, which vastly enhance its effectiveness; [Debater%20%28Civ6%29](Debater), gives it a huge increase in Religious Strength during [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat). Many of the other promotions help it spread religion much more effectively than the Missionary; [Chaplain%20%28Civ6%29](Chaplain) can also provide an early-game healer. The Apostle is generally the most important religious unit.
The Apostle is expended upon using the Evangelize Belief action, the Launch Inquisition action, or its last charge of Spread Religion. Until then, it may act as a religious warrior, engaging in theological combat with religious units of other religions. This combat will diminish its [HP](HP), destroying the unit when its HP reaches zero, so it would be wise to use its other abilities first before engaging.
Note that in order to use the Evangelize Belief and Launch Inquisition abilities, an Apostle must be in friendly [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) and have at least 3 charges of Spread Religion left. This means that Apostles with [Orator%20%28Civ6%29](Orator) and/or [Pilgrim%20%28Civ6%29](Pilgrim) can spread religion a few times before being used to evangelize or launch an inquisition.
The Apostle, like all other religious units, heals at Holy Sites or [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) adjacent to Holy Sites.
If your main goal is to just spread religion, the Apostle can do this three times. However, the Orator and Pilgrim promotions, the [Mosque%20%28Civ6%29](Mosque) [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29%23Worship](Worship Belief), and the [Hagia%20Sophia%20%28Civ6%29](Hagia Sophia) wonder all increase this. These bonuses stack, so an Apostle with the Pilgrim promotion purchased in a city with a Mosque by a civilization that has the Hagia Sophia will have an outstanding 8 Spread Religion charges. In "", this number can be raised to 10 charges if the city also has Moksha established with the Patron Saint title, and the Apostle gains both the Pilgrim and Orator promotions.