# Appeal (Civ6)

In "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", Appeal is a special [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) that measures how attractive a [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) is to both citizens and tourists. It is an important factor to consider when deciding where to place various s and [Tile%20improvements%20%28Civ6%29](improvements).
In almost all cases, Appeal applies only to land tiles. Water tiles do not have Appeal unless they contain a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder), making these the only water tiles that can be included in [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks).
Mechanics.
Appeal is represented by an integer value on each tile, and is broken down into five different levels that range from a low of "Disgusting" to a high of "Breathtaking" (see below). The current value and level of Appeal can be viewed in the tile's tooltip.
Appeal value by default is 0, which is then modified by the [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) type, features, and improvements in surrounding tiles as follows:
All Appeal modifiers are cumulative: for example, a Coast with a Water Park built on it will yield +2 Appeal, while a pillaged Mine or a Rainforest with a Mine in it will yield -2 Appeal.
[Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazil) alters the Appeal of Rainforests in its territory from -1 to +1. Rainforests within their territory can boost Appeal of tiles outside their territory. The [Biosph%C3%A8re%20%28Civ6%29](Biosphère) grants +1 Appeal to all tiles in its owner's territory that are adjacent to Rainforests or Marshes (effectively countering their normal Appeal penalty).
[Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29](Teddy Roosevelt) ([Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29/Bull%20Moose](Bull Moose Teddy) if the [Persona%20Packs%20%28Civ6%29](Persona Packs) are enabled) grants +1 Appeal to every tile in a [Cities%20%28Civ6%29](city) with a National Park.
In addition, there are some and wonders that can boost the Appeal of tiles. [Alvar%20Aalto%20%28Civ6%29](Alvar Aalto) and [Charles%20Correa%20%28Civ6%29](Charles Correa) provide +1 and +2 Appeal bonuses (respectively) to tiles owned by the [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) in which they use their unique ability, the [Golden%20Gate%20Bridge%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Gate Bridge) provides a +4 Appeal bonus to tiles owned by the city that builds it, and the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower) provides a +2 Appeal bonus to every tile in its owner's territory.
A tile with greater Appeal is more attractive to people and thus will allow a [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) or [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserve) placed on it to provide more , as outlined in the table below.
[Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia) gains additional yield bonuses from Theater Squares, Holy Sites, [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs), and [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) placed on tiles with high Appeal: +1 for Charming, +3 for Breathtaking. 
Finally, [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks), [Seaside%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Seaside Resorts), and [Ski%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Ski Resorts) generate (and , in the case of Seaside Resorts) based on the Appeal of the tiles on which they are placed. The unique improvement of the [Mapuche%20%28Civ6%29](Mapuche), the [Chemamull%20%28Civ6%29](Chemamull), can also only be placed on Breathtaking tiles, and grants (and after researching [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight)) based on its tile's Appeal.
Strategy.
Appeal can be important in all circumstances, but it is especially important for players pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory), because it affects two of the most powerful late game generators: National Parks and Seaside Resorts. You might think that there isn't much you can do in regards to Appeal aside from planning ahead and settling cities in locations where you could later enjoy appealing terrain. However, that's not entirely true!
As shown above, there are two factors which are player-dependent, and which can influence Appeal: building districts and planting Woods (which becomes possible after developing the [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic)), as well as removing features which have negative influence (i.e., Marshes and Rainforests). In "Rise and Fall", there is also the City Park improvement, which grants +2 Appeal on neighboring tiles and can be constructed in any city to which [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang) is currently assigned as a [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor) (if she has the [Parks%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Parks and Recreation) title). If you use these tools wisely, you will be able to improve the Appeal of select tiles, and then place the above-mentioned improvements on them.
Bugs.
Some tiles that are 5 [hex](hex)es away from the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) will always have zero Appeal. This can be fixed by settling another city near those tiles, or by reloading.