# Aqueduct (Civ6)

The Aqueduct is a in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" which provides early water infrastructure. It requires [Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Engineering), and must be placed adjacent to the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) and either a [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain), [Oasis%20%28Civ6%29](Oasis), [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake), or [River%20%28Civ6%29](River) (which must be on an edge of the [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) that is not directly between the City Center and the Aqueduct).
Strategy.
The Aqueduct is not a specialty district, meaning that you can construct it in any [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) which has the right conditions without subtracting from your maximum district count, as Population dictates.
The in-game description of how much is gained is misleading: it doesn't add 6 , but instead sets the from water to 6 if the city doesn't have fresh water. Originally, cities with no water have 2 from water, cities with coastal water have 3 , and cities with fresh water get 5 . So, in effect, the Aqueduct gives 4, 3, or 2 for a total of 6, 6, or 7, respectively.
While Aqueducts may at first seem to be a mediocre district that's only useful if there are only Mountains and no sources of fresh water around, they become far more valuable if you take into account the major [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) they give to [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones). They immediately provide 2 extra , another 2 on top of that once you construct a [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant), followed by yet another 4 with the [Craftsmen%20%28Civ6%29](Craftsmen) or [Five-Year%20Plan%20%28Civ6%29](Five-Year Plan) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) that double the adjacency bonus. Instead of thinking of Aqueducts as something to build only for your cities without fresh water, you should instead consider them a district that gives your city 2 and a possible 8 , which are pretty decent yields. If the Aqueduct can be placed next to a [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissure), you'll net 1 as well.
The [Khmer%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization's) Aqueducts provide them with an additional 1 for every Population and 1 , and also increase the output of adjacent [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) by 2. [Incan%20%28Civ6%29](Incan) [Terrace%20Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Terrace Farms) receive 2 from each adjacent Aqueduct. Finally, as [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Mayan) cities never naturally receive bonus from water, Aqueducts in their cities always provide the maximum of 4 .