# Archaeological Museum (Civ6)

The Archaeological Museum is an advanced [Culture%20%28Civ6%29](cultural) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the and requires an (or one of its replacements).
Strategy.
The Museum works quite differently from "". First, it has been split into two different buildings - the Archaeological Museum, which is dedicated exclusively to displaying Artifacts, being one of them. That means that its slots cannot hold any other type of [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works), such as Portraits or Sculptures.
What's more, the [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologist) unit is now tied directly to this Museum type - only [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) with it may build this unit, and only while there are free slots in the Museum! The Artifacts themselves may not be moved out of a Museum until it is full (all slots are taken). Afterwards, they may be rearranged between your other Archaeological Museums, or traded away.
Activating the [Theming%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](theming bonus) of the Museum requires different Artifacts from the same [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era), but different [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) (or [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states)). This is easier than it sounds, and is certainly much easier than activating the respective bonus of the [Art%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Art Museum) - you just need some luck when excavating the Artifacts. Try to excavate them from faraway places in the world - this increases the chance they will belong to a different civilization.
[English%20%28Civ6%29](England's) British Museum [List%20of%20civilization%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](ability) makes it easier for them to theme their Archaeological Museums - each one has 6 Artifact slots, and the theming bonus automatically activates when all six slots are filled.
In "", each cultural city-state with 6 or more s gives an additional +2 in each Archaeological Museum.