# Archer (Civ6)

The Archer is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It upgrades from the [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29](Slinger) (or its replacements).
Strategy.
The Archer isn't the first ranged unit in the game anymore - it is the second, after the Slinger. It is a considerable upgrade from its predecessor - it has better Combat Strength, better Ranged Strength, and most importantly, a of 2, which allows it to hide behind the front line while shooting. An army of Archers and [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors) is surprisingly effective at rushing unsuspecting neighbors. One very common strategy is to amass and train a lot of Slingers, so once [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery) is unlocked, you can already have an army of Archers at your service. But don't depend solely on them for assaulting [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) - their considerable penalty vs. districts means they will only be effective against the weakest of cities, and only if they don't have [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls).
The Archer is an indispensable upgrade for those that seek early combat, or have serious [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) problems. What's more, its development is easy, and upgrading your Slingers costs only 60 per unit (on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed)). Aside from being a convenient defense against early invasions from aggressive neighbors (such as [Chandragupta%20%28Civ6%29](Chandragupta), [Montezuma%20%28Civ6%29](Montezuma), and [Cyrus%20%28Civ6%29](Cyrus)), these Archers can unlock the for [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery), as well as another and an further down the line ([Metal%20Casting%20%28Civ6%29](Metal Casting) when upgraded into [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen) and [Scorched%20Earth%20%28Civ6%29](Scorched Earth) when upgraded into [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannons), respectively).