# Armagh (Civ6)

Armagh is a religious [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI). "It was added in the [Vikings%20Scenario%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Vikings Scenario Pack).
Strategy.
Armagh allows its [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain's) [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to build the [Monastery%20%28Civ6%29](Monastery) [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement). Before the release of "", this is a largely useless improvement, even for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory) player. A yield of 2 per improvement is negligible, and withdrawing all your [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By_class%23Religious](religious units) to your [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) to heal up is impractical when considering how narrow the window of opportunity for a Religious Victory is. On a Standard-sized or larger [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map), no one should ever spend turns to march their religious units to a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) halfway across the map, get them damaged, march them back home to heal and mobilize them again. Armagh's Suzerainty, therefore, should almost always be dead last on your priority list. You may send them some s to earn if there are no other religious city-states; otherwise, you can ignore this one, since this is arguably the worst religious city-state before "Gathering Storm".
After the release of "Gathering Storm", however, the Monastery receives a buff that makes it borderline ridiculously overpowered: it provides 1 per improvement and 2 with [Colonialism%20%28Civ6%29](Colonialism), with additional based on adjacent s. Remember, 1 in the early game is worth 2 [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms), [Plantation%20%28Civ6%29](Plantations), [Pasture%20%28Civ6%29](Pastures), and/or [Camp%20%28Civ6%29](Camps), and the Monastery's only placement restriction is that it can't be next to another Monastery. This improvement alone can single-handedly solve every issue that a civilization can run into, so civilizations with bonuses like [Indian%20%28Civ6%29](India), the [Khmer%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer), and the [Incan%20%28Civ6%29](Inca) should definitely compete for Suzerainty of Armagh.