# Arthur (Civ6)

Arthur is a [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29%23Heroes](Hero) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". He is exclusive to the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack).
Strategy.
Like all Hero units, Arthur's Strength increases with the progression of the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), as shown in the table below.
Arthur is a Hero designed for one thing only: rushing an enemy civilization within a very limited time frame. Among the twelve Heroes, he is the one with the fewest "tricks" up his sleeve; his only ability transforms an adjacent unit into a [Questing%20Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Questing Knight), a unique heavy cavalry unit with a limited Lifespan. The Combat Strength of a Questing Knight depends on the current game era, regardless of the original unit, so it is actually beneficial to knight obsolete units instead of advanced ones. Right after being knighted, the Questing Knight is able to move and attack in the same turn, even when the original unit has already done so. Arthur has 4 Charges, which can result in a small army of 4 Questing Knights. However, a huge downside of this ability is that a Questing Knight only exists for 12 turns and dies without turning back into the original unit afterward. Every time you use Arthur's Accolade on a unit, you only improve its Combat Strength for 12 turns and then condemn it to death. The later it is into the game, the higher the cost of this ability is, since you have to turn more and more expensive units into Questing Knights. Moreover, since the Questing Knight's Combat Strength depends on the current World Era, Questing Knights are underwhelming if you are very technologically advanced and able to unlock units way ahead of their respective eras. Its Combat Strength starts at 34 in the Ancient Era and scales upward roughly 10 more Combat Strength per era, so it is only as strong as a unit of the era immediately after. If your enemies have slightly above average , the Questing Knight is by no means unstoppable. And if you are so ahead of your opponents in terms of , you will win with your advanced units anyway, making it pointless to recruit Arthur.
Despite having the highest base Combat Strength himself (rivaling that of [Hercules%20%28Civ6%29](Hercules)), Arthur's bag of tricks is a lot less diverse and useful than his counterparts, making him generally on the weaker side of the Hero spectrum. He's definitely not on the power of level of Hercules, [Sinbad%20%28Civ6%29](Sinbad), or [Himiko%20%28Civ6%29](Himiko), whose generalist abilities can lend themselves to all victory conditions and are coveted by all civilizations. However, there are a few leaders and civilizations that love summoning Arthur if they happen to discover him. The best leader for Arthur is undoubtedly [Basil%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Basil II) of [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium), whose cavalry units are a menace since they can deal full damage to walls and cities. You can also try to use Arthur's ability on levied units; Questing Knights can traverse rough terrain a lot faster, and you don't lose any invested when the Questing Knights go away. Therefore, [Sumerian%20%28Civ6%29](Sumeria) or [Matthias%20Corvinus%20%28Civ6%29](Matthias Corvinus) may find Arthur helpful (although when it comes to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) and levying, Arthur cannot compete with Himiko if she is also discovered). To a lesser extent, [Sim%C3%B3n%20Bol%C3%ADvar%20%28Civ6%29](Simón Bolívar) and [Genghis%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Genghis Khan) may also find some use for Arthur, since cavalry units under these two leaders are faster and stronger, although 1 extra and 3 extra Combat Strength don't warrant picking Arthur every single game when you play as [Gran%20Colombian%20%28Civ6%29](Gran Colombia) or [Mongolian%20%28Civ6%29](Mongolia). Overall, for every other domination-oriented civilization except Byzantium, unless you are unlucky with the discovery of Heroes, there are better Hero choices than Arthur.
Bugs.
As of v1.0.8.4, Arthur can use his ability on [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval), [Air%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](air), [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Civilian](civilian), and [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Support](support units) (including [Aircraft%20Carrier%20%28Civ6%29](Aircraft Carriers), , [Himiko%20%28Civ6%29](Himiko), and [Sinbad%20%28Civ6%29](Sinbad)). If a non-military unit occupies the same tile as a military unit and Arthur uses his ability on that tile, the non-military unit may be knighted instead of the military unit (depends on the sequence of stacking). However, Arthur cannot knight non-military units when they're standing on their own.