# Astrology (Civ6)

Astrology is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by discovering a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder). 
Strategy.
Astrology is the earliest science in human history. A blend of stargazing and early insight in the workings of nature, Astrology hints to humankind the wonders that exist beyond what eyes can see, and spur their spirituality to a new height. After that, a civilization is able to construct its first [District%20%28Civ6%29](District) - the [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) - along with its first [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building), the [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine), and start working towards one of the most important aspects of the game: [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religion).
Astrology is one of the first five techs you can start researching right away, and the only one of those which actually unlocks a , and a very important one at that. This tech is of paramount importance to civilizations which strive for Religious victory, since they want not only to be able to Found a Religion, but also to be of the first doing so! If you want to try and build [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge) (and thus get a Religion without the usual headache) you should also research Astrology first. But other than that you have no incentive to develop it too fast - there are other, more important technologies to be researched first. 
Seafaring civilizations would also want to research Astrology fast, since it leads to [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation), which in turn unlocks the seafaring-oriented district in the game, along with an important Wonder. Still, even for them there are again more important techs to be nailed first (like [Sailing%20%28Civ6%29](Sailing)). 