# Atomic Bomb (Civ5)

Game Info.
First [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ5%29](nuclear weapon) of the game. Delivered via bomber. Requires [Manhattan%20Project%20%28Civ5%29](Manhattan Project) and .
Strategy.
An Atomic Bomb is the first weapon of mass destruction in the game. It's represented by a bomber plane, so it works the same way as an [Air%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](air unit) and can be based in a player-owned [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) or aboard a [Carrier%20%28Civ5%29](Carrier). It can move from base to base or attack a target within its range of 10 tiles.
When it detonates, an Atomic Bomb will damage cities and hurt [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) within its blast radius of 2 tiles, and will kill any unit on the tile it hits, including aircraft and civilian units. All [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements) within the blast radius are destroyed (as if Pillaged), and the tiles become radioactive (affected by [Fallout%20%28Civ5%29](fallout)). The bomb also reduces (kills) approximately half of the of a target city, down to a minimum of 1. This can be reduced by the construction of a [Bomb%20Shelter%20%28Civ5%29](Bomb Shelter) in the target city. The bomb is automatically destroyed when it attacks.
Since the Atomic Bomb is delivered by a bomber, it is supposed to be possible for an opponent with sufficiently strong anti-air defenses (e.g., [Anti-Aircraft%20Gun%20%28Civ5%29](Anti-Aircraft Guns) and [Mobile%20SAM%20%28Civ5%29](Mobile SAMs)) to shoot down the plane that carries it. However, due to a [Bugs%20%28Civ5%29](bug) that has been present since the game's launch, the bombers that drop Atomic Bombs cannot be intercepted. Therefore, the best defense against nuclear strikes is a good offense: either nuke your opponents before they can nuke you, or cut off their supplies to prevent them from building and using weapons of mass destruction.