# Atomic Era (Civ5)

The Atomic Era is a new era introduced in "". It is the seventh era in the game, roughly representing the period between [World%20War%20II](World War II) and the 1980s.
Game Info.
Aided by the latest developments in scientific research, the Atomic Era accelerates the technological development of the world (represented primarily by weaponry) to a breakneck speed. Air travel becomes truly widespread in this era, with the improvement of flight techniques and the development of civic [Airport%20%28Civ5%29](Airports), thanks to which armies may travel to the other side of the world in a single turn! Most other weapon systems also continue to modernize on all levels, making war ever more dangerous and lethal.
But another, brand new discovery puts all other weapons to shame: the Atomic Bomb. The development of [Atomic%20Theory%20%28Civ5%29](Atomic Theory) not only reveals the last strategic resource, , but also develops the most terrible and destructive weapons mankind has ever known. They are a warmonger's dream; they are the weapon with which leaders seeking a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory) may obliterate all competition, and the world be damned!
Maybe in order to counter these terrible developments, the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress) turns into the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ5%29](United Nations), where civilizations can resolve their differences more peacefully. And so [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory) also becomes possible, while continues to develop, bringing [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory) ever closer.
Other Properties.
When starting a game in the Atomic Era, you receive three [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers), two [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers), five , 500 , and 200 . [Venetian%20%28Civ5%29](Venice) gets three [Merchant%20of%20Venice%20%28Civ5%29](Merchants of Venice) instead of the Settlers. When a city is founded it begins with 4 and contains a , , , , , , , , and (if on the coast) .