# Australian (Civ6)

The Australian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [John%20Curtin%20%28Civ6%29](John Curtin), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark green and yellow. They are available with the [Australia%20Civilization%20%26amp%3B%20Scenario%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Australia Civilization &amp; Scenario Pack), which was released on February 21, 2017.
The Australians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Land Down Under, which provides +3 in [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), allows [Pasture%20%28Civ6%29](Pastures) to trigger a [Culture%20Bomb%20%28Civ6%29](Culture Bomb), and increases yields from [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs), [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), and [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) by 1 in [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) with Charming [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) (or 3 with Breathtaking Appeal). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Digger%20%28Civ6%29](Digger) (which replaces the [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry)), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Outback%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Outback Station).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 2 towards [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast), tier 5 towards , , and "
With their first entry into the "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" franchise, Australia led by John Curtin is already a solid civilization that needs to be watched out for. With high [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) to [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts) and a defensive nature borne from their leader ability and unique unit, not many can stop Australia's charge towards victory.
Land Down Under.
The Australians' civilization ability and unique components give them the flexibility to pursue almost any victory condition. They benefit most from founding coastal cities (whose capacity can be further boosted if they become the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of [Mohenjo-Daro%20%28Civ6%29](Mohenjo-Daro)) near , , and so that they can build Pastures and quickly expand their empire's borders. Once they discover [Guilds%20%28Civ6%29](Guilds), they can surround their Pastures with Outback Stations to improve their and output. Moreover, since Outback Stations can be built in [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](deserts), the Australians can create thriving cities in lands that will not be nearly as interesting or valuable to other civilizations (and will probably give them access to lots of and in the later [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) of the game).
While the Australians will be tirelessly building tile improvements around their cities, they will need to carefully consider where to place their districts. They should build [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) on low-Appeal tiles to improve their cities' potential, and reserve high-Appeal tiles for districts that will support their path to victory. The bonus for coastal cities will allow them to support a larger Population and more districts, and if they plan to make use of [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion), [God%20of%20the%20Open%20Sky%20%28Civ6%29](God of the Open Sky) and [Desert%20Folklore%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Folklore) are both excellent [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheons) for them to choose. In addition, once they discover [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation), they can plant [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) in the tiles around their districts to increase their Appeal (and yields).
Since the Australians can make use of Desert tiles and will need [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to fill them with Outback Stations, they should try to build the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids) and [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra) in the early stages of the game. [Great%20Zimbabwe%20%28Civ6%29](Great Zimbabwe) will be helpful to them if one of their cities is surrounded by herds of and (and/or water-based [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus](bonus resources)), and the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower) is a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) they'll want to make every effort to build. Getting multiple districts with +4 or greater adjacency bonuses is a relatively doable feat for Australia even without the Eiffel Tower, and with it, it can be quite normal for a district to have an adjacency bonus of +7 or more.
Citadel of Civilization.
John Curtin's leader ability gives the Australians the potential to be the world's police force, and rewards them well for doing so. Their best option is to be reactive rather than proactive, since their bonuses only take effect if they're the target of a declaration of war or they liberate another player's city. Signing [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29%23Defensive%20Pact](Defensive Pacts) with one or more friendly civilizations or going after warmongers and liberating the cities and [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) they capture will give Australia extra at crucial moments, and if an aggressive civilization starts causing problems late in the game, their Diggers can take the fight to the enemy's doorstep. Furthermore, the Australians' tendency to have an abundance of coastal cities encourages them to maintain a strong navy, which they can use for defense or offense as needed.
Unfortunately, this ability is notoriously unreliable because in some games, entire [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) will pass without a player declaring war on Australia or a city changing hands. In the expansions, however, there are two strategies that can be used to manufacture a liberation. The first is to capture a foreign city, allow it to rebel, recapture the [Free%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Free City), and then turn it back over to its founder. The second works in reverse: Australia induces a foreign city to rebel (possibly with a well-placed [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spy), or [Cultist%20%28Civ6%29](Cultists) in [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies)), captures the ensuing Free City, and then liberates it. Both strategies align well with a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory) and the late-game technological dominance that Australia tends to achieve. It should be noted, however, that Free Cities often have relatively high Combat Strength, so capturing them requires a strong military.
This ability is indirectly buffed in the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), where Free Cities are much more common. In this mode, it is fairly easy for the Australians to liberate cities that revolt during a [Dark%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Dark Age), and then do it again and again for a permanent boost.
Outback Station.
With the Outback Station, the Australians can change even barren deserts into rich and productive land. While its and bonuses are initially small, the adjacency bonuses it earns from Pastures, [Steam%20Power%20%28Civ6%29](Steam Power), and [Rapid%20Deployment%20%28Civ6%29](Rapid Deployment) can eventually make its yields quite impressive. To maximize these yields, found [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) near , , and . After improving these [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) with Pastures, encircle them with Outback Stations and watch your cities grow into sprawling metropolises.
The late game rewards building Outback Stations in clusters, similar to [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farm) clusters. Each Outback Station in a cluster of three will eventually receive +1 and bonuses, which only grow larger as the cluster expands.
Digger.
The Digger is a great replacement for the Infantry, with bonuses that allow the Australians to take a more active role in global conflicts in the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) and beyond. With +15 Combat Strength on a coastal tile outside its home territory, the Digger can reinforce Australia's naval forces as they attack enemy [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) located along or near the coast, or even spearhead assaults on its own. It also provides the Australians with a strong defense against enemies who try to launch land-based assaults against their cities, which will often be located on coastal tiles to take advantage of the bonus.
The really strong aspect of Diggers, however, may be the lack of requirement. Infantry are weak units in "" because the resource they require is unlocked at [Refining%20%28Civ6%29](Refining) - and then you're one tech away from [Tank%20%28Civ6%29](Tanks), a faster and stronger unit than Infantry. Australia, though, doesn't need to take this detour, so they can beeline Replaceable Parts. Combine that with their potential output from high [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) adjacency bonuses, and there is the potential for a devastating timing push!
When facing Diggers, the best option is to outrange them or intercept them on the ocean. Diggers are tough on offense, but can easily fall prey to well-placed [Machine%20Gun%20%28Civ6%29](Machine Guns) or fighter strikes. Just remember to keep them away from your [AT%20Crew%20%28Civ6%29](AT Crews)!
Unlike "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", the site of the battle is actually the tile of the defender, not the attacker. Therefore, similar to other bonuses that grant extra Combat Strength when "fighting on" certain [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain), the Digger will receive extra Combat Strength when it attacks a unit standing on a coastal tile or on a tile outside of Australian territory, regardless of where the Digger stands.
Victory Types.
The bonuses the Australians receive make them particularly well-suited for a Science Victory, since they can rapidly fill their cities with people and generate the and needed to start and finish the required [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects) (especially if they attain Suzerain status with city-states such as [Geneva%20%28Civ6%29](Geneva), [Hong%20Kong%20%28Civ6%29](Hong Kong), and [Mitla%20%28Civ6%29](Mitla)). [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) gain major adjacency bonuses from [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) and [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs); the former grant extra Appeal to surrounding tiles by default, and the latter can only be found on [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast), which is where Australia will want to settle anyway.
All other win conditions are viable. For [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious) and [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victories), focus on choosing appropriate religious beliefs and building and developing the proper kinds of districts in proper places. A [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) will typically hinge on a well-timed Digger rush and calculating use of [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](diplomacy). Speaking of which, if you're going for [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory) as Australia, look to control and/or liberate [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) for and build the [Statue%20of%20Liberty%20%28Civ6%29](Statue of Liberty) in one of the productive coastal cities you're sure to have.
Counter Strategy.
Australia can be one of the most difficult civs in the game to counter, especially if you spawn far away from them. As John Curtin grants all Australian cities an extra 100% in a defensive war, a declaration of war can sometimes be more trouble than it is worth. Nevertheless, there are a few things players can do to counter Australia. The first is to simply declare war and never make peace to diplomatically isolate Australia (although even if you declare a Joint War, you won't be able to stop your ally from making peace). During war, pillage as much as possible, as pillaged tiles reduce adjacent tiles' Appeal by 1 and thus make Land Down Under less effective. Naval raiders and light cavalry such as [Privateer%20%28Civ6%29](Privateers) and [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) are the most effective at doing this.