# Austrian (Civ5)

The Austrian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
Austria's [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) allows you to spend to acquire allied [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states) without having to conquer them by military means, provided the city-state remains your ally for at least five consecutive turns. The exact price scales with the progress of the game (and the development of the city-state), starting from around 500 in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Era) and reaching more than 1000 in the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Information Era). A city-state acquired in this way immediately becomes part of your empire, without any Resistance or damage to [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) and , and with all of its [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) intact!
This unique ability is superior to the similar feature of the [Venetian%20%28Civ5%29](Venetian) [Merchant%20of%20Venice%20%28Civ5%29](Merchant of Venice), because you may either Puppet or fully Annex the City-State, and also because you don't need a unit to do this. However, you should use this ability sparingly, because city-states acquired this way will lose their status as a city-state, and you will also lose all benefits from alliances such as , , or boosts per turn, any bonus resources or acquired from the [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policies) of the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) tree, and delegates for the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress). You'll also take a big hit in due to the extra citizens. Still, it is a very good alternative to expansion in exchange for [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers), and because it allows you to instantly acquire fully developed cities in remote locations. Since city-states are present from the beginning of the game and won't lose their [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) to other civilizations' cities, this can turn out to be a great boon in the middle and late game, when expansion space dwindles and the fight for resources becomes ever more ferocious.
Contrary to what the unique ability's name suggests, the fact that you lose delegates when you annex an allied city-state isn't always a great thing for an empire going for a [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory) (although with fewer city-states in the game, fewer votes are needed to win). Therefore, it is worth your while to consider pursuing another [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) condition. Your ability to quickly acquire new cities and units makes both [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination) and [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](scientific victories) feasible, so think carefully about what kind of victory you're heading for, and remember not to use Diplomatic Marriage too much if you're intent on pursuing a diplomatic victory.
You will absolutely need [Commerce%20%28Civ5%29](Commerce) as a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](Social Policy) track, because it affords more and greater ability to buy from city-states.
The Austrians also have an interesting [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](unique building): the [Coffee%20House%20%28Civ5%29](Coffee House), which gives a considerable boost to Great Person generation in addition to its bonus and can be constructed everywhere (unlike the [Windmill%20%28Civ5%29](Windmill), which can only be built in cities on flat lands). Along with their unique [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era) unit, the [Hussar%20%28Civ5%29](Hussar), it gives you a boost in the middle game and the possibility for expansion.