# Autosled (CivBE)

Game info.
The Autosled is a {{Purity-SupremacyIconBE}} Purity - Supremacy hybrid unit consisting of a large drone crewed by a navigator and a gunner. It fulfills the role of shocktrooper, being able to move quickly throughout the battlefield and dish out heavy damage early on in the game. Due to its low Affinity requirements, it is usually the first unit the player can receive that is levitating and is also quite cheap in terms of resources and production. As it has many abilities that other units have not acquired yet, it can be used to effectively rush opposing sponsors in the early game as their strength is very high for that time. The Autosled, being able to levitate, can also be used with aquatic sponsors and excels in naval combat despite the penalties inflicted upon their high strength.
Unit Upgrades.
Tier 1.
Autosleds are available fairly early in the game and are also the first hovering and amphibious unit in the game. This makes them incredibly versatile. They also have a very high {{StrengthBE}} at this time and a respectable movement speed. Their only drawbacks are their costs. Early in the game a player is lucky to have one Affinity resource, let alone two. Sponsors will have to trade with other sponsors or expand their territory aggressively in order to secure the {{FiraxiteBE}} and {{FloatstoneBE}} necessary for production. They are best used in the ocean where most units have Strengths of less than 20, but also excel against infantry.
Tier 2.
Tier 2 Autosleds have less of the magic that Tier 1 Autosleds have as many units during this time can Hover. They still have higher Strength than typical Tier 3 and Tier 4 Combat Rovers and can be more mobile. They excel at this time due to their perks, which allow them to excel at destroying cavalry-based armies.