# Ayutthaya (Civ6)

Ayutthaya is a cultural [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI.) "It was added in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack).
Strategy.
Ayutthaya offers its best benefits to cultural players who have either highly productive [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) or an abundance of . If they focus on constructing or buying [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) throughout their empire, the benefits from this city-state can add up to a meaningful amount. However, this city-state should be a low priority compared to more powerful cultural city-states, such as [Antananarivo%20%28Civ6%29](Antananarivo).
Overall, Ayutthaya is somewhat similar to [Fez%20%28Civ6%29](Fez) in that their [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus only offers a small amount of a secondary yield at unreliable times. However, while Fez requires incredible timing, for the player to have achieved multiple contradictory goals such as having a religion and high output while ultimately focusing on , and being lucky enough to have many nearby unconverted cities, constructing buildings is something that all empires will simply do anyway, making Ayutthaya a helpful city-state for anyone to control. Ayutthaya typically produces less than Fez does each time their bonuses activate, but Ayutthaya's bonus generally happens more often and is much more dependent on the player's choices rather than map generation.
Ayutthaya is probably best utilized by scientific civilizations trying to keep up in as they peacefully construct buildings in their [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) and [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones), as a scientific focus requires the most amount of s and therefore buildings amongst all the [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Victory) types. Similarly to Fez, this catch-up strategy works best in the first half of the game when passive output is low, as finishing a single building with Ayutthaya's bonus can equal multiple turns' worth of . However, as players and AI generally build more Campuses than they do [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), this strategy stays relevant longer. If you are making use of this strategy, it should reach its peak around the late [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) to mid [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), or Turns 60–165 in a Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed) game. 
Some buildings you may be constructing around this time and Ayutthaya's reward for constructing them include:
All unique replacements for these buildings ([Palgum%20%28Civ6%29](Palgum), [Marae%20%28Civ6%29](Marae), [Sukiennice%20%28Civ6%29](Sukiennice), etc.) cost an equal amount of and thus give an equal amount of when constructed.