# Aztec (Civ5)

The Aztec people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The Aztec civilization has one of the most powerful early [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) in the game: the [Jaguar%20%28Civ5%29](Jaguar). This unit alone gives them mastery in all [Forest%20%28Civ5%29](forests) and [Jungle%20%28Civ5%29](jungles), not only by receiving a combat bonus and moving faster there, but also through its ability to partially heal upon killing an enemy. Only the [Iroquois%20%28Civ5%29](Iroquois) can challenge the Aztecs in such [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain), and only after they get their [Mohawk%20Warrior%20%28Civ5%29](Mohawk Warriors). So, use this early game advantage to the fullest while you have it, and try to keep your Jaguars alive so they can transfer their abilities when upgraded, and preserve your mastery of the jungles!
By combining this powerful unit with the empire's unique ability to gain {{Culture5}} from defeated enemies, the Aztecs could conceivably attempt something uncommon: a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory) via an aggressive military path. Keep fighting to add points to your {{Culture5}}, while simultaneously placing weight upon both cultural and military advancement.
Consider playing [Map%20%28Civ5%29](maps) with lots of [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](barbarians) and filling out the [Honor%20%28Civ5%29](Honor) tree first to greatly increase your {{Culture5}} through killing units.
The [Floating%20Gardens%20%28Civ5%29](Floating Gardens) - the Aztecs' unique replacement for the [Water%20Mill%20%28Civ5%29](Water Mill) - is also very useful, but alas, it can only be constructed by [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) built on [Rivers%20%28Civ5%29](rivers) or near [Lake%20%28Civ5%29](lakes). Its effect is a quick boost in their {{Food5}} production, causing their cities to grow rapidly.
Although the Aztecs are not a {{Science5}}-focused civilization, their [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ5%29](starting bias) helps prevent them from falling hopelessly far behind in technological advancement. Their tendency to spawn near jungles allows them to benefit greatly from [University%20%28Civ5%29](Universities), which provide +2 {{Science5}} for every jungle tile a city works. Jungles already provide enough {{Food5}} to promote fast {{Population5}} growth, and [Library%20%28Civ5%29](Libraries) and [Public%20School%20%28Civ5%29](Public Schools) provide bonus {{Science5}} based on a city's {{Population5}}, so an Aztec city with a Floating Gardens and a full complement of {{Science5}}-producing [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) can become a real scientific powerhouse. Having enough cities that produce large sums of {{Science5}} each turn can give the Aztecs a good shot at winning a [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](science victory).