# Aztec (Civ6)

The Aztec people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Montezuma%20%28Civ6%29](Montezuma), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are cyan and dark red. They were added to "Civilization VI" in a free, separate pack that was released 90 days after the game's launch (as was the case with the [Mongolian%20%28Civ5%29](Mongol) civilization pack in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)"); during those 90 days, the Aztec civilization was available exclusively to players who had pre-ordered the game.
The Aztecs' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Legend of the Five Suns, which allows them to use [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to speed the construction of {{District6}}s. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Eagle%20Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Eagle Warrior) (which replaces the [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior)), and their unique [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) is the [Tlachtli%20%28Civ6%29](Tlachtli) (which replaces the [Arena%20%28Civ6%29](Arena)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "None"
The Aztecs are a strong [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) civilization, with strong units that can establish a firm foundation for their empire for eras to come. While they are terrifying conquerors, they can later also transition into efficient empire builders. The Aztecs' ability to keep their subjects happy and erect many {{District6}}s quickly rewards them with a distinct level of versatility that not many domination civilizations have.
Gifts for the Tlatoani.
The Aztecs should be on the offensive as soon as the game starts. Do not worry about building your empire in the early game; any deficiencies in infrastructure or districts can be made up for by your Eagle Warriors (see below). Moreover, the Aztecs rarely have to worry about [War%20weariness%20%28Civ6%29](war weariness) thanks to the fact that [Resources%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury%20Resources](luxury resources) spread {{Amenities6}} to more of their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities). While the +1 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength from each luxury resource applies to all military units, only Eagle Warriors can convert enemy units into Builders. Therefore, aim for early aggression with your Eagle Warriors to fuel your economy, while also being on the lookout for luxury resources which you don't already own to snowball into an unstoppable military force in the mid-game. Notably, the bonus from luxury resources also applies to the {{ReligiousStrength6}} Religious Strength of [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries), [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles), and [Inquisitor%20%28Civ6%29](Inquisitors), thus allowing the Aztecs to spread their [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) more efficiently throughout the game. Note that this {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus applies only on attacks and not on defense.
Since other civilizations are more likely to have luxury resources in their territory that you don't, conquering their cities will have other rewards, too. Captured luxuries make your armies stronger, which then let you get more luxuries. This becomes a tremendous snowballing effect that makes the Aztecs terrifying.
Legend of the Five Suns.
This ability is very similar to [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin Shi Huang)'s ability, except it applies to {{DistrictIcon6}} [District%20%28Civ6%29](Districts) instead of [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders), it does not grant Builders an extra charge, and it can be used all game long.
As stated above, early Eagle Warrior conquest is encouraged, as it will help your cities grow, rather than hinder it. If you are lucky and start next to multiple types of Luxury Resources, improve them as soon as possible and let the conquest begin.
In the later game, try to use the [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom) or [Public%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Public Works) policy card, which grants newly created Builders two extra charges (5 in total). With this perk, a Builder (that could be produced in another city) can build a whole district in only 5 turns. Since Builders usually require less {{Production6}} to produce than districts, this will be a big boost in city deployment, particularly since the city can use these 5 turns to work on other buildings. (To accomplish this, when the Builder is taking its turn, you have to temporarily switch the city's production to the district, then use the Builder's action and switch the city project back to whatever else it should do.) In "," this ability gets a massive buff in the form of the [Ancestral%20Hall%20%28Civ6%29](Ancestral Hall). Combining this with Serfdom or Public Works basically enables you to insta-build a district in a new city incredibly quickly. Ancestral Hall should be built, even if you want a Domination Victory. 
While playing as the Aztecs, the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids) Wonder is incredibly useful. Do whatever it takes to get this wonder, even if it means conquering another city that has them.
Tlachtli.
The Entertainment Complex, together with the Arena, is a very much forgotten piece of infrastructure, as the only situation in which anyone would want to build it early is when they want to construct the almighty [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum). (In [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI", the Arena is not required for the Colosseum.) For the Aztecs, the conquerors of the world, there is definitely no reason for them to have to build this Wonder when they can take it forcefully instead. The Tlachtli is obviously an upgrade from the Arena, but its bonus is nowhere near enough to warrant an early focus. 2 extra {{Faith6}} is too small, especially since the spoils of war will always be much greater than this. {{Amenities6}} are supplied in much more generous amounts by [Luxury%20resources%20%28Civ6%29](Luxury resources), and the Aztecs always build at least 1 or 2 [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) for some {{General6}} points.
Overall, this building is one of, if not flat out the worst piece of unique infrastructure in the game, as it gives some bonuses that the civilization either does not need or can obtain in abundance easily from another source. In the vanilla version, you can pretty much ignore this building entirely, or at least delay its construction until much later in the game when {{Amenities6}} are required to support larger cities. From "" onward, if you capture the Colosseum from a neighbor, the standard Arena required to build it will be converted into a Tlachtli afterwards, giving you both the Wonder and the +4 [Historic%20Moments%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), so truly under almost no circumstances would you ever want to waste {{Production6}} on this building. The [Golf%20Course%20%28Civ6%29](Golf Course), as bad as it is, is at least somewhat synergistic with [Scottish%20%28Civ6%29](Scotland), can be cheaply built with [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders), and does not require the prerequisite construction and a {{District6}} slot for a {{District6}} rarely anyone wants in the early game. 
Eagle Warrior.
The Eagle Warrior is one of the most terrifying units in the early game! Its high strength, combined with the fact it's available from the very start of the game, allows the Aztecs to mount incredibly effective early rushes, comparable only to these of the [Sumerian%20%28Civ6%29](Sumerians). What's more, its unique ability can singlehandedly turn the Aztecs into the fastest developing civilization in the early game! With Builders aplenty, they can quickly upgrade the [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) around their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities); what's more, thanks to the Aztecs' civilization ability, they can use Builders to speed up {{District6}} creation.
The only catch is that the Eagle Warrior's ability works only against units of civilizations and [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) (as well as [Free%20Cities%20%28Civ6%29](Free Cities) in the expansions), not against [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians). This practically forces the Aztec player to make war early on if they want to take advantage of these units, but you might want to leave one or two cities alive to succumb to [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) pressure to get more use out of your Eagle Warriors even in peacetime. Go get that pesky neighbor!
Victory Types.
Domination is key for the Aztecs. Every single Aztec ability boosts Domination, and this should be your first choice. On the other hand, using Builders to finish building, say, [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceports) quicker than anyone else means that a Science Victory is completely within your grasp. Religious Victory is another unorthodox option, because the {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus from luxuries also applies to (offensive) theological combat, but you may not even get a Religion to work with unless your first war target is someone like [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia) who'll leave you with plenty of Holy Sites to capture.
Counter Strategy.
The Aztecs' path to victory pretty much entirely relies on a successful Eagle Warrior rush. If you spawn next to them, prepare your defenses; [Horseback%20Riding%20%28Civ6%29](Horseback Riding) can be rushed particularly easily and the [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) you unlock there are stronger than Eagle Warriors. Plus, you'll unlock [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers) along the way and they can deal damage without taking it - ideal in a city garrison role where the Eagle Warriors can't even directly fire back.
If you meet them later, they're only a threat if they've already started to snowball; their district-rushing bonus, while powerful, is about all they have going for them for peaceful victory types, and is strongest when they have a wide empire anyway.