# Babylonian (Civ6)

The Babylonian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Hammurabi%20%28Civ6%29](Hammurabi), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are light and dark blue. They are available with the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack), which was released on November 19, 2020.
The Babylonians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Enuma Anu Enlil, which allows them to unlock full [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) whenever their respective {{Eureka6}}s are triggered, at a cost of 50% of their per turn {{Science6}} generation. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Sabum%20Kibittum%20%28Civ6%29](Sabum Kibittum), and their [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique building) is the [Palgum%20%28Civ6%29](Palgum) (which replaces the [Water%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Water Mill)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 3 towards [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers)" 
Leapfrogging through the technology tree into the future by triggering {{Eureka6}}s, Babylon under Hammurabi can unlock the secrets of the universe at a speed that can be matched by no others, while solidifying their foundational infrastructure for their early empire. A {{Science6}} civilization with an intriguing gameplay twist, Babylon requires players to effectively strategize the {{Eureka6}} flow from tech to tech; mastering Babylon is a sign of mastering "Civilization VI" on the whole. 
Enuma Anu Enlil.
"Overview".
This ability, although it can be summed up in two short sentences, is one of the most complex abilities in the game and definitely the hardest one to master; its ramifications are so wide and far-reaching that they shake up what you think you know about the flow of the tech tree. Among a long list of caveats that come with this ability, here are a few crucial ones that you should definitely know before starting your next Babylon game.
First and foremost, the 50% {{Science6}} malus is applied at city level and all {{Science6}} percentage bonuses are accrued additively. It is easier to process if you think of it this way: Normally, when you manage to accumulate an extra 50% {{Science6}} modifier, your civilization will generate {{Science6}} at a rate of 150% compared to normal, so if you are generating for example 10 {{Science6}} per turn, you get 15 instead. For Babylon, you may believe that the 10 {{Science6}} per turn becomes 5 {{Science6}} per turn due to this ability, and with an extra 50% {{Science6}} modifier their {{Science6}} output will become 75%, or 7.5 {{Science6}} per turn, but in fact, their {{Science6}} actually will return to 10 {{Science6}} per turn - akin to having no ability and no active modifiers - because percentage modifiers are added "additively" and not "multiplicatively". Therefore, any {{Science6}} percentage modifier you can get on Babylon is twice as powerful as a normal civilization. Keep this in mind: a 50% modifier in {{Science6}} means Babylon's {{Science6}} output will effectively be doubled. Below is a list of all the percentage modifiers:
Bonuses that grant a flat amount of {{Science6}} to buildings, as expected, do not work this way. Take [Albert%20Einstein%20%28Civ6%29](Albert Einstein) for example, whose ability is to grant 4 {{Science6}} to each [Research%20Lab%20%28Civ6%29](Research Lab). His ability will be cut down to 2 extra {{Science6}} per Research Lab if he is recruited by Babylon. Also, the [Rationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Rationalism) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) grants Campus buildings a flat amount of {{Science6}}, so it will not work in our favor either. The [International%20Space%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](International Space Agency) policy card does not work in our favor as well, since the extra {{Science6}} is granted at empire level, not city level.
In addition, any ability that grants a flat amount of {{Science6}} but is not per-turn generation is unaffected by this ability, including:
When playing as or against Babylon, World Eras could be noticeably shorter due to constant tech leaping, which means if you are in a Golden Age, it is much more likely you will end up in a Dark Age next time (especially in the early game when you haven't started your conquest yet), since you won't have enough time to accrue enough Era Score and the threshold is raised against you. Plan accordingly with this in mind.
The tech leaping has a few other consequences that you will never encounter elsewhere besides when playing Babylon. First, as you may or may not know, you can complete techs without having their prerequisites as long as you can trigger the {{Eureka6}}s for them. However, in order to manually select a tech to hard-research (in the traditional way with per-turn {{Science6}}), you will need all of the tech's prerequisites recursively; in other words, if you want to get for example [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working), you need to have "both" [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working) and [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining) researched and unlocked - having just Bronze Working is not enough to begin researching.
Furthermore, regarding unit upgrading path, just because you have unlocked an advanced unit does not mean you can upgrade a precursor unit into the advanced unit while skipping over all the intermediate units. For example, one strategy outlined below is the [Spec%20Ops%20%28Civ6%29](Spec Ops) rush, but just because you have unlocked [Plastics%20%28Civ6%29](Plastics) and can now train Spec Ops does not mean your Scouts can be upgraded straight into Spec Ops when you are missing either [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery) (to unlock the [Skirmisher%20%28Civ6%29](Skirmisher)) or [Rifling%20%28Civ6%29](Rifling) (to unlock the [Ranger%20%28Civ6%29](Ranger)).
"Ancient and Classical Era {{Eureka6}}s".
This is the signature bonus of Babylon, and also the one you need to play around the most in order to make Babylon competitive in any field. You will receive a huge malus in {{Science6}} generation, a whopping 50%, but {{Eureka6}}s will unlock full technologies instead of completing only a fraction of them. Since it is not possible to activate all {{Eureka6}}s in the early game, you will have to make precise decisions on which tech needs to be hard-researched (at a speed of a turtle, pretty much) and which tech needs to be reserved for later possible {{Eureka6}}s. A huge part of these decisions lies in the first 2 eras, as they will shape how your game is going to turn out. Of course, there cannot be any recommendation here, since each game, your starting location and your early exploration will dictate a lot of possible variations, but there are a few caveats you should keep in mind that can help you out a little bit:
"Campuses, Theater Squares, and the Great Library".
A huge pitfall inexperienced players often get caught in is to build [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) in every city, regardless of their preferred Victory condition, but ignore [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) almost completely unless they go for a Cultural Victory. Certain statistics can be of low priority when you go for a certain type of Victory ({{Science6}} in a Religious and Diplomatic game, {{DiplomaticFavor6}} in a Domination game, etc.), but {{Culture6}} unlocks {{GovernorTitle6}} Governor titles, {{Envoy6}}s, Governments, and a lot of powerful and game changing Policy cards, so it smooths out the path and accelerates the speed to all types of Victory. That idea will be a lot clearer when you play as Babylon, since building Campuses en masse is no longer a viable option.
Making Theater Squares the main {{District6}} to build as Babylon has a lot of advantages. First, there are quite a few techs whose {{Eureka6}}s depend on civic advancement. They are [Stirrups%20%28Civ6%29](Stirrups), [Castles%20%28Civ6%29](Castles), [Banking%20%28Civ6%29](Banking), [Scientific%20Theory%20%28Civ6%29](Scientific Theory), [Sanitation%20%28Civ6%29](Sanitation), [Radio%20%28Civ6%29](Radio), [Combustion%20%28Civ6%29](Combustion), [Combined%20Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Combined Arms), [Computers%20%28Civ6%29](Computers), [Telecommunications%20%28Civ6%29](Telecommunications), and [Robotics%20%28Civ6%29](Robotics). Some of these techs are absolutely crucial to any civilization, since they either unlock a powerful Wonder, or a premier military unit of its era, or a project that leads to a Scientific Victory. Not to mention, empires with strong {{Culture6}} can reach [Globalization%20%28Civ6%29](Globalization) civic incredibly fast, which allows them access to the mighty [International%20Space%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](International Space Agency) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) (and, for Babylon, unlocks [Giant%20Death%20Robot%20%28Civ6%29](Giant Death Robots)). This card can help Babylon tremendously in completing late game techs whose {{Eureka6}}s have to be triggered by {{Scientist6}} or [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies), and Hammurabi's bonus towards {{Envoy6}}s, while not very strong, can be decent for Babylon to establish a diplomatic foothold with city-states. Also, Spies are almost exclusively unlocked by civics, with the sole exception of the Computers tech, whose {{Eureka6}} is also triggered by civic development.
By no means you should completely ignore Campuses, you should have at least 2 of them, one of which should be adjacent to a [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) tile, so you can trigger the {{Eureka6}}s for both [Printing%20%28Civ6%29](Printing) and [Astronomy%20%28Civ6%29](Astronomy), while triggering the {{Inspiration6}} for [Recorded%20History%20%28Civ6%29](Recorded History), the civic that unlocks the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ6%29](Great Library).
The Great Library is an extremely powerful Wonder in Babylon's hands, as it normally gives a free {{Eureka6}} every time another civilization recruits a {{Scientist6}}, but because of Enuma Anu Enlil, these {{Eureka6}}s become full technologies. Unlike the trap that [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](China) falls into thinking that their slightly more powerful {{Eureka6}}s will help pay off the {{Production6}} and time invested into the Great Library, Babylon should absolutely build this wonder. Since you do not want to build a lot of Campuses, your {{Scientist6}} point generation will be poor, so it is likely you will miss out on a lot of them. This wonder is most useful in the late game when many of the {{Eureka6}}s are the same: "Boost though Great Scientist or spy", this is also the time when Babylon is relatively weaker than other pure {{Science6}} civilizations, as everyone else will be building [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) and having their {{Science6}} multiply exponentially, while Babylon's tech advantage over the rest of the world evens out (if you are not going on a Domination path, that is). Overall, the Great Library will certainly grant you multiple free techs over the course of the game, which can be even more valuable if the techs received are those whose {{Eureka6}}s are required by civic advancement, as mentioned above. Thus for Babylon specifically, the Great Library is nearly as powerful as other universally powerful wonders such as [Forbidden%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Forbidden City) or [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani).
"Medieval, Renaissance, Industrial and Modern Era {{Eureka6}}s".
Mid-game {{Eureka6}}s are a lot harder to trigger, and require much more calculations and investments. You cannot just trigger random {{Eureka6}}s just for building an improvement you would want to build anyway like you did in earlier eras anymore. However, you can save a lot of time strategizing by just going on a full conquest mode in these eras, as the majority of the {{Eureka6}}s in this period ask you to kill a unit with a certain unit type, build a number of buildings, or train a certain type of units, all of which can easily be completed by conquering neighboring empires. As long as you successfully claim some cities with some levels of infrastructure, you are good to go, free techs will flow in naturally. Aim for techs that unlock advanced units, and with your high {{Culture6}} output from all your Theater Squares, you will have appropriate policy cards to train your army and demolish your enemies.
The most important {{Eureka6}}s of these four eras are the ones that either unlock new military units or boost yields of your improvements or reveal new strategic resources. The ones that unlock new buildings and Wonders should be of lower priority, since you can always steal these from your defeated foes.
The only tech that cannot be triggering by conquering or having high {{Culture6}} output from Medieval to Industrial is [Education%20%28Civ6%29](Education). If you are in a game against Scientific civilizations that build a lot of Campuses, there is a high chance you will never earn a {{Scientist6}}, so this tech is a good candidate to be hard researched. In the Modern Era, Chemistry should also be hard-researched, since a lot of conquest means everyone else most likely hates you, so you cannot trigger the {{Eureka6}} for this, regardless of the version you are playing in. For Radio, although it is heavily map generation dependent, the more territory you have from conquering, the more likely you will find a spot for a National Park, so it is not a big deal. You can also build a Settler to settle down a new city in a high Appeal area just to get this triggered. With all of this being said, there will never be enough emphasis on how crucial it is for Babylon to have a good {{Culture6}} generation, as it solves a ton of problems that they may run into.
This makes the construction of [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monuments) Babylon's utmost priority when settling new cities, as triggering {{Eureka6}}s is something Babylon can do irrespective of cities for the most part, while {{Inspiration6}} are much harder to come by. +2 {{Culture6}} at just 60 {{Production6}} is nothing to scoff at, although it is worth noting that you should only prioritize building Monuments once you start conquering and your build order becomes a bit more lax.
"Atomic Era and onward".
There are not much in terms of strategies that can be discussed with Babylon from this point onward, since from [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era), there are a lot of techs that can only be boosted with {{Scientist6}}s or Spies. The issue with {{Scientist6}}s has been mentioned above, you do not build a lot of Campuses, competing for them may be difficult. Espionage can technically help you, but it also depends a lot on who you are playing the game against. Most likely, at this point, Babylon is so far ahead in terms of number of techs unlocked, that unless you have some pure {{Science6}} civilizations in the game like [Korean%20%28Civ6%29](Korea), [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya), or [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia), there is a really high chance you cannot use your Spies to steal any tech from anyone. And just the fact you may have to wait for them to catch up with you in research to be able to use your agents really defeats the purpose of having a lead. If you are in the game with one of these Scientific civilizations, [Cryptography%20%28Civ6%29](Cryptography) and [Nuclear%20Espionage%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Espionage) policy cards may aid your espionage a lot. However, if there is no one who is more technologically advanced than you, there are still a few things that can help you smooth out your path to Victory as Babylon.
Since Medieval Era, it is highly suggested you become a warmonger, so there is no point in stopping now, especially considering other paths are incredibly difficult for you. Luckily for Babylon, all the techs that unlock new units in the last few eras are boostable, meaning you can fully upgrade your melee, ranged, heavy and light cavalry units to the end of the line, even the [Giant%20Death%20Robot%20%28Civ6%29](Giant Death Robot) can also be unlocked easily as well (as long as, once again, you have a good flow of {{Culture6}}, since Robotics is boosted by having the [Globalization%20%28Civ6%29](Globalization) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic)). [Bomber%20%28Civ6%29](Bombers) and [Fighter%20%28Civ6%29](Fighters) can also be unlocked by triggering the {{Eureka6}} of [Advanced%20Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Advanced Flight), helping you replace the outdated siege and ranged units. At this point, you are miles ahead of your opponents on the tech tree, Bombers and Fighters should be more than enough to finish your enemies. Overall, as a warmonger, the only thing you will have to go without is nukes, so you have to capture cities in the old-fashioned way, but your highly advanced units will have no problem tearing down the enemies' walls and charging right in. Just a proof to show that Babylon is actually quite bad at winning a Scientific Victory: every piece of infrastructure or project related to the Scientific Victory is locked behind a non-boostable tech, which they cannot reliably earn {{Scientist6}}s or use Spies for.
"The most reliable unit progression for a Domination Victory: Crossbowman rush".
A Domination Victory is a much better choice for Babylon, using their ability to grab vital techs that give them powerful units other civilizations would not have access to for a long time. The most efficient unit progression for Babylon would be the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman) rush, since the Crossbowman is the premier military unit of late Medieval Era (detailed [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here)), if you are able to get them in late Ancient, early Classical, that is the doom for most civilizations. First, construct 3 [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29](Slingers). Then, kill a barbarian or enemy unit with the Slingers to trigger [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery). Upgrade your Slingers to [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers) (180 {{Gold6}} for 3 Archers) to trigger [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery) (as detailed [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here)). You can then try to upgrade these Archers into Crossbowmen (250 {{Gold6}} each, 750 {{Gold6}} in total) and use these units to shoot down enemy cities before they build Walls.
If they manage to build Walls then the process is a bit longer, but the gist is basically the same. After having 2 Crossbowmen, you will unlock [Bombard%20%28Civ6%29](Bombards) from [Metal%20Casting%20%28Civ6%29](Metal Casting), but not yet have {{Niter6}} to build them. An [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) is required to boost [Military%20Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineering), giving you access to {{Niter6}}. You can build one Bombard (or two if you are generous), your enemies will most likely only have [Ancient%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Walls) with the city strike damage of an Archer (read more [City%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](here)), and your Bombard can blast Ancient Walls from 100% to 0% in one shot. The moment the Bombard gains the [Crew%20Weapons%20%28Civ6%29](Crew Weapons) {{Promotion6}}, it will be unstoppable for a long time, especially if you heal it properly between fights. With your Crossbowmen and your Bombard, you can keep using your Warriors and Sabum Kibittum to deal the final blow to capture cities, both of which can be upgraded into [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen) if needed. All they need to do is to fortify on the frontline surrounding the enemy city to put it under siege, and strike at an opportune moment.
As you might have gleaned, this rush involves a lot of constructing and upgrading units, and here lies one of the caveats of Babylon: getting access to advanced techs early is only one part of victory; the other part is amassing enough {{Gold6}} and {{Production6}}. Unfortunately, [Mercenaries%20%28Civ6%29](Mercenaries) comes rather late for you to take advantage of [Professional%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Professional Army), so you should instead build a [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) and a Harbor (with Ninu Ilu Sirum gotten a free [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market) and a free [Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Lighthouse)), so now you will have at least 3 {{TradeRoute6}}s to assist your financial needs, and an [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) (with an extra 2-3 free {{Production6}} from the Workshop, depending on the game version you are playing) for your manufacturing needs. Considering Apprenticeship gives you both the Industrial Zone and a boost to [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mine) {{Production6}}, you need to build 3 Mines as soon as possible. Remember to put your Industrial Zone next to the Aqueduct you would build to boost Military Engineering to gain the major adjacency bonus.
Of course, how important {{Culture6}} is to Babylon cannot be emphasized enough, as it unlocks major policy cards that either helps you upgrade your units at a much lower cost, accumulate resources faster, lower the units' maintenance cost, or just build them a lot faster. Remember, you can combine policy cards with [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus)' [Groundbreaker%20%28Civ6%29](Groundbreaker) title; use your [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to chop [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) and [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests) to quickly train your expensive units.
"Infrastructure focus by beelining Industrialization: An alternative".
"Note: After the [Civilization%20VI%20December%202020%20Update](December 2020 Update), certain {{Eureka6}} conditions were made easier to achieve in Gathering Storm. Since the vast majority of players who own also own Gathering Storm, this section will only apply to the Gathering Storm expansion without detailed explanation for players who play without Gathering Storm. With that being said, the strategy outlined in this section can still be used even if the player does not own Gathering Storm, it is just harder to achieve, since the {{Eureka6}} conditions are higher, so the timing will be less reliable.
The purpose of this strategy is trying to reach the Industrialization tech as soon as possible (preferably in the Ancient Era), giving all of your cities a huge {{Production6}} that allows you to branch off to many other directions depending on what you want to do next. The key {{Eureka6}} flow here will be reaching Apprenticeship first by building 3 Mines, then building 2 Industrial Zones, the first of which will give you a free Workshop (thanks to Hammurabi). The moment you finish the second Workshop in another city, Industrialization is unlocked, revealing {{Coal6}} and unlocking [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory) and [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant). Even if there is no {{Coal6}} in your territory (which is likely, considering you already have 2 cities at this point), you are the only one that is aware of {{Coal6}}, so settle extra cities to take advantage of this. This strategy is a really powerful one, because it puts your infrastructure at such an advanced level that you can actually build your extremely expensive units in a reliable amount of time. 
With this much {{Production6}} early on, there are many routes that you can take, including unlocking advanced units for conquests, using the {{Production6}} to build Wonders and Theater Squares for a Cultural Victory, or continue focusing on infrastructure for a Scientific Victory:
"Bad {{Eureka6}} timing: consequences and solutions".
As outlined above, Babylon needs a good {{Eureka6}} flow from tech to tech, a flow so delicate that it can be disrupted easily if there is a poorly timed {{Eureka6}} popping up unexpectedly. For example, a Slinger can kill a Barbarian to grant you Archery before you get the chance to train 2 more Slingers, and now you have to waste {{Production6}} to hard build Archers. Even if you have a lot of {{Gold6}} and want to build more than 3 Slingers to upgrade to Archers, you cannot. The moment you upgrade your third Slinger, you will gain Machinery, thus making every other Slingers you may have upgrade to Crossbowman instead, which is much more expensive. Building 2 Harbors will unlock [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography) and [Caravel%20%28Civ6%29](Caravels), thus forcing you to hard-research [Shipbuilding%20%28Civ6%29](Shipbuilding) even when you do not really want to. The {{Eureka6}}s that will lead you into this situation are the ones that unlock a new military unit, thus phasing out an older one, yet the older one is required to unlock another {{Eureka6}}, so pay extra attention to those. 
In the early game, what you can do in these situations is to find a city-state, become its Suzerain and levy its troops, these levied units will count towards the {{Eureka6}}s that you need, although this is not recommended, since you want to use {{Gold6}} to upgrade your units for conquest, so if you mess up, just add the tech that cannot be boosted to the list of hard-researched techs. In the mid game and later on, these earlier techs can be stolen from your enemies by your Spies, so that you can keep researching the ones from the era you are in, but piggyback off of your opponents' research for earlier techs.
Ninu Ilu Sirum.
"Free first building in a specialty {{District6}} when building that {{District6}} the first time".
This is the main and more important bonus of this ability. As soon as you can construct their home {{District6}} for the first time, you will receive a free [Library%20%28Civ6%29](Library), [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine), [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market), [Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Lighthouse), [Amphitheater%20%28Civ6%29](Amphitheater), [Arena%20%28Civ6%29](Arena), [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop), [Grove%20%28Civ6%29](Grove), [Consulate%20%28Civ6%29](Consulate), [Ferris%20Wheel%20%28Civ6%29](Ferris Wheel), or [Hangar%20%28Civ6%29](Hangar). Of those, the ones you should be thinking about most are the extra {{Prophet6}} point from the Shrine, the extra {{TradeRoute6}} from the Market and Lighthouse, the extra {{Scientist6}} point from the Library, and free {{Production6}} from the Workshop. An extra {{Prophet6}} point can be crucial in the race to claim a religion, since basically your first Holy Site will grant you 2 {{Prophet6}} points instead of 1, similar to [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium). However, as Babylon, the route to claim a religion is actually a lot bumpier, since first, you have to be lucky enough to run into a Natural Wonder, since it takes you forever to research Astrology from scratch. Even if you are lucky enough to unlock Astrology early, you have way too many higher priorities in your build order: a Sabum Kibittum for exploration, a Builder for {{Eureka6}}s, a Palgum for a lot of early {{Food6}} and {{Production6}}, an early Settler for a second city, 3 Slingers to unlock Archery and Machinery, and maybe a Monument for some early {{Culture6}} generation, etc. Your plate is already so full that trying to find a space to stuff in a Holy Site may seem like a tall order. However, if you want to make certain sacrifices to get an early religion, that is by no means a terrible decision. As discussed many times before, you are a Domination civilization, and the Crusade belief aids that quest tremendously (and you can snipe that belief from other religious Domination empire, like Byzantium, [Spanish%20%28Civ6%29](Spain) or [Polish%20%28Civ6%29](Poland)). If you have to replace anything in the list above with a Holy Site, the Palgum and the Monument can wait a bit longer. If you are unlucky with the Natural Wonder map generation, just ignore religion. Thanks to your tech leaping ability, you do not even need to research Astrology and still have access to techs after it. 
The first Campus is also important, since it comes with a free Library. Since Babylon should not build a lot of Campuses, thus is not competitive when it comes to {{Scientist6}}s, this first Campus + Library can give you a headstart to earn one, so that you can unlock the infamously difficult Education tech. Invest your first three {{Governor6}} Governor titles in [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala), so that he can earn [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants), if you establish him in the city with the free Library, you will be earning 4 {{Scientist6}} points per turn, which is respectable. If you also have the Oracle in this city, the number will be 8 {{Scientist6}} points per turn, and up to 10 if you run the [Inspiration%20%28Civ6%29](Inspiration) policy card. If you want to get the {{Eureka6}} for Education, make sure to build this early. If you give other empires enough time to build multiple Campuses, you will never be able to compete with them with only 1 or 2 Campuses.
"Free {{Envoy6}} when completing a non-specialty district for the first time".
In essence, Hammurabi's Babylon can receive a grand total of 6 free {{EnvoyIcon6}} [Envoy%20%28Civ6%29](Envoys) over the course of the game, when he builds the first Aqueduct, Dam, Neighborhood, Canal, Spaceport and Government Plaza. By no means this ability is enough to push Babylon toward a Diplomatic Victory, as earning only 6 extra {{EnvoyIcon6}} [Envoy%20%28Civ6%29](Envoys) over the entire course of the game is quite underwhelming. You should invest in militaristic city-states in the early game, as they help you build your expensive army, especially if those city-states help you directly in war, like [Lahore%20%28Civ6%29](Lahore) or [Akkad%20%28Civ6%29](Akkad). Later, you should invest in cultural city-states or industrial city-states. Industrial ones are hit-or-miss, some are awesome, some are just purely awful, but cultural city-states are generally powerful, with only [Vilnius%20%28Civ6%29](Vilnius) and [Mohenjo-Daro%20%28Civ6%29](Mohenjo-Daro) being either terrible or extremely situational. 
Overall, Hammurabi's ability phases out of relevance pretty quickly, and it only feels impactful when you build these {{District6}}s in the early game, when you already have a lot of priorities you need to sort out first. A free building in Ancient/Classical Era feels great, but a free building in Medieval onward is just underwhelming, it all depends on how early you can get your infrastructure up, which makes Babylon's decision-making in the early game even harder than it already is.
Palgum.
The Palgum is a very nice upgrade to the rather underwhelming and underused Water Mill. Beside the 1 extra {{Housing6}} and {{Production6}} compared to the Water Mill, the Palgum provides 1 {{Food6}} to all tiles next to a source of Fresh Water, including [River%20%28Civ6%29](rivers), [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](lakes) and [Oasis%20%28Civ6%29](oases). The efficacy of this building is no longer heavily tied to random map generation like the Water Mill, since now you can seek out locations on a river where there are many Fresh Water sources, and grow your cities incredibly quickly. And don't underestimate the {{Production6}} bonus, either. Extra 2 {{Production6}} is huge in the Ancient Era, especially for a building that does not require another {{District6}} slot. For comparison, the [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop), a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) building, also provides 2 {{Production6}} in Vanilla and "", while being almost 2.5 times as expensive as the Palgum and requiring the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone).
Also, the Palgum is only one of the two [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) unique buildings, meaning it is not dependent on a specific type of {{District6}} and can be built everywhere, as long as the city satisfies one very simple placement requirement. The [Valletta%20%28Civ6%29](Valletta) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state), therefore, has a powerful synergy with Babylon, since it allows them to instantly purchase the Palgum with {{Faith6}}, making it easier for new cities to grow immediately after settling.
It is worth noting that the Palgum is unlocked with [Irrigation%20%28Civ6%29](Irrigation) rather than [Wheel%20%28Civ6%29](Wheel) like normal. For most civilizations, this is barely a distinction, but because of the way Babylon's ability interacts with technology it ends up being unlocked much sooner, since you will nearly always spawn next to and prioritize improving {{Wheat6}}, {{Rice6}}, and {{Maize6}}, thanks to your [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias). Considering Babylon's outstandingly low {{Science6}} per turn and the fact that they can easily catch up with their civilization ability, they are not under pressure of having to settle almost immediately after the game starts. Indeed, they can wander around for the first few turns looking for an ideal spot with a [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farm)-able [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource) to instantaneously unlock Irrigation and get their unique building up and running in no time. It is actually quite viable to start training a Builder to put down a Farm on a resource, then move on to build the Palgum immediately, so that your {{Capital6}} will receive this huge boost of {{Food6}} and {{Production6}}; however, by doing so, you will have to forgo early exploration.
Sabum Kibittum.
The Sabum Kibittum is an interesting unique unit. The stat that may jump out at you is its disappointing 17 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength - 3 less than the [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior), which it does not replace, and less than any unit in the game with the exception of the [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scout). However, it has some things going for it. First of all, it has 3 {{Moves6}} - more than any melee unit all the way until the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era) - as well as a {{Sight6}} radius of 3. This makes it as effective, and slightly more survivable, than the Scout; additionally, it has the standard melee +5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus against anti-cavalry units, which makes it slightly better at dealing with [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) than, say, the [Okihtcitaw%20%28Civ6%29](Okihtcitaw), but still not a good choice at clearing the outpost: against a Barbarian [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman), it only has 22 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength compared to the Spearman's {{Strength6}} Combat Strength of 25 plus extra {{Strength6}} Combat Strength from fortification. Finally, it has a whopping +17 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus against all cavalry units, whether light or heavy. While not especially suited for conquest by itself, the combination of its unique traits makes the Sabum Kibittum an excellent defense against cavalry, even more so than the underpowered [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman). Its bonus makes it almost as strong against cavalry, it is not only cheaper but available earlier as well, and its greater {{Moves6}} allays the main flaw with anti-cavalry units: the inability to catch up with the cavalry it's meant to defend against. It could perhaps supplement an invasion and deal with pesky cavalry harassing your main army of Warriors and [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers), or use its {{Moves6}} to snipe an irritating ranged unit.
Babylon especially wants to scout, and be on the lookout to claim as many [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Villages) as possible to pick up some early {{Eureka6}}s. Thanks to the reconnaissance prowess of this unit, there is virtually no reason for Babylon to build Scouts. At only 5 extra {{Production6}}, you have a maneuverable unit that can clear Barbarians quickly and can even be used effectively in combat. Also, because of its classification as a melee unit, its relevancy can be prolonged into later [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras). Overall, the Sabum Kibittum is just a better unit - and a far more worthwhile long-term investment - than the Scout. Not to mention, there is not a single [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in the game whose {{Eureka6}} has to be triggered with a recon unit.
With that being said, despite being a more worthwhile investment than the Scout, the Sabum Kibittum should never be the heart of the Babylonian army. Due to its obvious weakness against melee and ranged units, dealing with this unit is very easy. Not to mention, Babylon is a civilization with the most rigid build order in the entire game; in the early turns of the game, they perpetually have way too many priorities on their plate to maximize the number of {{Eureka6}}s unlocked. Mass training the Sabum Kibittum means you would have to let go so much progress in favor of a unit so inefficient at conquest, even if you have a horde of them. With their ability to unlock technologies at a ridiculous speed, especially with the popular and simple [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman) rush, there is virtually no reason for Babylonians to build more than one of this unit for the sole purpose of exploration.
Victory Types.
Though it seems like Babylon is the premier civilization to go for a Scientific Victory, the reality is a bit more nuanced, mainly because every tech required for a Scientific Victory does not have specific {{Eureka6}}s for Babylon to obtain, meaning even they are stuck researching it the old fashioned way. Coupled with the inherent {{Science6}} penalty you also have, as well as the likely fact you have not built as many Campuses as a normal {{Science6}} empire would, by the time you have researched said techs, other empires may catch up and essentially negated the head start Enuma Anu Enlil gives Babylon. Sometimes, you do not even need to wait until the late game to realize the {{Eureka6}} mechanics may not always be in your favor, even as early as the Medieval Era onward, if you do not go on a conquest. Babylon's ability is powerful in the early game, but begin tapering off by the late game, and Hammurabi's ability is not even relevant at the time when Babylon needs to sprint hard for a Scientific Victory. Unlike other early game civilizations like [Scythian%20%28Civ6%29](Scythia), [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedon) or [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](China) who can easily snowball from their early advantage, whether it is from conquering or from their own infrastructure, Babylon simply does not.
As outlined in great details above, Babylon excels in conquest. Contrary to popular belief, their civilization ability does not give them an edge in {{Science6}}, instead it gives you an edge in techs, and these techs unlock new units far ahead of the world era. Given that the {{Gold6}} and {{Production6}} management needs to be on point when you produce expensive units, but once the Domination machine starts, it just cannot stop, because from conquering a lot of cities, you will naturally trigger {{Eureka6}}s that give you even more techs. Babylon is a little bit different from other Domination civilization, since the beginning of the game is a bit rough, since you rely on these very advanced units, yet incredibly expensive to roll over your opponents, but once they start rolling, they will be nigh-unstoppable.
A Cultural Victory is also within reach. Despite having no direct bonus, the playstyle engendering from your civilization ability necessitates the mass construction of Theater Squares, which will make you quite competitive in earning {{GreatPeople6}}. Also, because you will be way ahead of everyone in the tech tree, you gain access to Wonders quicker. Of course, you will run into other pure Cultural civilizations, but one thing to keep in mind about them is that they most likely are very passive. If their {{Culture6}} generation is too high for your {{Tourism6}} to penetrate through, or if their recruitment of {{GreatPeople6}} is becoming a problem, you can always use your Bombards and aircraft to ensure that their people have to buy your blue jeans and listen to your pop music.
Counter Strategy.
A prosperous Babylonian empire needs three things: {{Gold6}} and {{Production6}} in the early game to get their technologically advanced army up and running, and later, {{Culture6}} to sustain their scientific lead. Their early {{Science6}} generation is pitiful, which means they will take an exceptionally long amount of time to research the first three techs to improve their tile yields. Furthermore, their civilization ability asks for a rigid build order without any deviation with the only aim being to unlock as many {{Eureka6}}s as possible. Anything you can do in the early game to harass them or to force them to go out of their desired build order can push them back a ton:
Also, in the early game, it is suicidal to trade {{Gold6}} to Babylon, especially if they ask for one-time {{Gold6}} deal instead of {{Gold6}} per turn. They are always starving for {{Gold6}} in the Ancient Era to upgrade their units, so do your best to cut off their {{Gold6}} sources and do not give them anymore than what they have.
The thing about Babylon is the more you play them, the more you realize there are only that many {{Eureka6}} flows they can go on. Any deviation from such pre-defined paths will cause fractures in their plans, which will eventually cause their empire to succumb to outside pressure because of their innate low {{Science6}} per turn. There are a few advanced units that they can rush effectively and there are ones they almost never use due to how the tech tree's {{Eureka6}} system is laid out. These are some examples of advanced units Babylon will never field, since the {{Eureka6}}s to reach these techs are very awkward:
The list goes on, but the obvious overall pattern is that they are all light and heavy cavalry units. Therefore, the advanced units you will have to deal with against Babylon are either naval units (so if you are on a water map, it is wise to be away from the coast), or melee and ranged units, with high damage but very slow. Also, the hallmark of a Babylonian "army" is that they only have two to three units but very advanced (like an Atomic Era unit on the Medieval battlefield sort of "advanced"). Settle in rough terrains and accumulate any layer of defense you can, and in the meantime try to be friendly with Babylon (just don't form a Research Alliance with them, or at least don't get the that Alliance to level 2). If you get attacked, amassing ranged units and put them inside defensible {{District6}}s to whittle down Babylon's units bit by bit. Remember, since they are limited by {{Gold6}} and {{Production6}}, every time you manage to kill one of Babylon's advanced units by focus fire, it costs them a huge fortune. Babylon's bonus will taper off later in the game, and that will be your chance to catch up.
Bugs.
As of version 1.0.7.9, Hammurabi's ability will not grant you the free building or {{Envoy6}} if the first {{District6}} of its type is conquered and not built by Babylon themselves. However, when they build it for the first time, the game will act as if they already built this type of {{District6}} before, and thus will not give them the free building and {{Envoy6}} then either.