# Babylonian (Civ5)

The Babylonian people represent a [DLC%20%28Civ5%29](DLC) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) for "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" that was released in October 2010.
Strategy.
The Babylonians are a scientific civilization, meaning they are geared towards outpacing other civilizations in technological advancements. The free [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Scientist) upon the discovery of [Writing%20%28Civ5%29](Writing) allows one to construct an [Academy%20%28Civ5%29](Academy) very early on in the game. This usually increases the empire's {{Science5}} output by a factor of 3, allowing one to take an early lead in technology. This lead becomes hard for the [AI](AI) to overcome on all [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ5%29](difficulty levels) outside of Immortal and Deity.
Again, thanks to Babylon's [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability), earning Great Scientists is also faster (and easier). This allows one to keep ahead of every other nation technologically. Try combining this with [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism), so that others will never be able to catch up to you in technological development.
What's more, the Babylonians are also very good at defensive combat, particularly in the early game. Their unique replacement for the [Archer%20%28Civ5%29](Archer), the [Bowman%20%28Civ5%29](Bowman), as well as their unique early game defensive [Building%20%28Civ5%29](building), the [Walls%20of%20Babylon%20%28Civ5%29](Walls of Babylon), can make up a great way to defend your [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities). Make use of both of these, and you will have a strong defense against enemy attacks.
On the other hand, the rapid technological development also means more buildings will become available earlier. This may prove to be a big problem if not balanced with city {{Production5}} output or the empire-wide {{Gold5}} output, so it's advisable to try to either improve your cities' {{Production5}}, or build a strong economy. Many players prefer to focus on economic development, as the Rationalism tree in "" grants a perk that makes [Trading%20Post%20%28Civ5%29](Trading Posts) provide {{Science5}} in addition to enhancing {{Gold5}} generation.