# Banking (Civ6)

Banking is a [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) [Technologies%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by discovering the [Guilds%20%28Civ6%29](Guilds) [Civics%20%28Civ6%29](civic).
Strategy.
With Banking, commerce is elevated to a new level. Individuals (and sometimes state entities) are now able to fund their enterprises ahead of time by borrowing money from a bank and repaying it later, after their business takes off. The [Bank%20%28Civ6%29](Bank), a new building for the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub), is unlocked, and with ways to borrow money for intensive mining operations, even [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries) now start earning money for their owners. The way is paved for the modern science of money.
Getting Banking requires a lot of work - you'll need to work your way around the central part of the tech tree. However, this is well worth it from an economic point of view: not only do you unlock a higher-tier commercial building (which in and of itself is worth more than its net contribution, thanks to the indirect bonus from Commercial [City-states%20%28Civ6%29](City-States)), but you also get yield from Quarries - one of the more widespread improvements in the game! This is especially useful to empires with lots of quarriable resources - their income will skyrocket all of a sudden. But any commercially oriented empires will greatly benefit from the Bank building, in addition to paving their way towards important techs in the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era).