# Barbary Corsair (Civ6)

The Barbary Corsair is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20raider](naval raider unit) of the [Ottoman%20%28Civ6%29](Ottoman) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Privateer%20%28Civ6%29](Privateer) and is unlocked with [Medieval%20Faires%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Faires).
Strategy.
Following the changes to pillaging in "Gathering Storm", constant [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) harassment is now a viable strategy that does not require a lot of investment to have a large standing army, and the Ottomans have just the perfect vessel for that. The Barbary Corsair thrives on being an incessant annoyance more than a direct combat unit, as it has everything you can ask for to fulfill its role (very much like the [Ottoman%20%28Civ5%29](Ottoman) [Sipahi%20%28Civ5%29](Sipahi) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)"): cheaper with standard invisibility for naval raider units, pillaging without costing , and most importantly, available before other civilizations unlock the standard Privateer to counter it. It is a rare unit that can actually benefit from the much undervalued [Great%20Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Great Lighthouse) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) and [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals), since what it needs to do its job is not Combat Strength, but only . This unit alone makes the Ottomans the bane of every civilization that has coastal [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements) or enjoys bonuses from coastal districts and settlements, such as the [English%20%28Civ6%29](English), [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australians), or [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Dutch). Technically, [Indonesian%20%28Civ6%29](Indonesia), thanks to the Kampungs and their civilization ability which incentivizes coastal constructions, is also a good target; however, they are equipped with [Jong%20%28Civ6%29](Jong), which are available at around the same time, and their ability to instantly invoke a huge armada of Jong (thanks to [Gitarja%20%28Civ6%29](Gitarja)'s ability) can be quite a problem if you decide to pick on them. 
The best aspect of this unit lies in its brilliant timing. Similar to the [Indonesian%20%28Civ6%29](Indonesian) [Jong%20%28Civ6%29](Jong), the Barbary Corsair is available in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), before the standard Privateer is unlocked for other civilizations. The only other two naval units in play at this time are the [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galley) and the [Quadrireme%20%28Civ6%29](Quadrireme), both are underwhelming military units with obsolete stats. Also, by being a Privateer replacement, the Barbary Corsair ignores zone of control, so catching this unit with just Galleys is nigh impossible. This allows them to have a very high degree of freedom to raid coastal cities for quite a while. Try to make the most of the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) before other civilizations gain access to Privateers - combined with [Policy%20cards%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) like [Raid%20%28Civ6%29](Raid) and [Total%20War%20%28Civ6%29](Total War), you will be rewarded with a constant income of , and healing to sustain through any damage thrown back your way. You can combine this with the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel) for even more from raiding, and then use this to purchase military units like the [Janissary%20%28Civ6%29](Janissaries) or [Bombard%20%28Civ6%29](Bombards) next era, which happens to be the peak of Ottoman power. 
Overall, the Barbary Corsair is in a relatively weird place in the Ottoman arsenal, considering that the Ottomans is a land domination civilization, similar to what [Dromon%20%28Civ6%29](Dromons) are to [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium). However, the main difference between the Barbary Corsair and the Dromon is that the Dromon is a naval domination vessel with its extra and Combat Strength while the Barbary Corsair is a support unit whose main role is to bring back as much and as it can to enable other more significant Ottoman strengths. This means while both Byzantium and Ottomans are land domination civilizations, the Barbary Corsair is much more likely to be able to contribute meaningfully on a land [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) than the Dromon.