# Barbarian Clans (Civ6)

Barbarian Clans is the seventh [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", introduced in the [Civilization%20VI%20February%202021%20Update](February 2021 Update). It expands the abilities of the [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) tribes, allowing diplomatic interaction with them and even granting them the ability to civilize and become [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). It is available to all players, regardless of their ownership status of the expansions and the "".
Mechanics.
This mode makes Barbarians even more interesting! Instead of being just an annoyance and a major disruptive force in the first turns of the game, Barbarians can now be used strategically, both to aid a player and to hinder the player's enemies. You can now interact with Barbarian outposts diplomatically and enlist their help instead of just fighting them. What's more, Barbarians now realize that there is a path forward other than total war.
Every Barbarian outpost is now considered a separate Clan - a minor political entity with its own command structure and progress. You will notice that each outpost now has a banner, similar to those of [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities). Each Clan has its own name, and belongs to one of 7 possible types. All [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) belonging to this clan also bear its name, to facilitate their distinction not only from other clans, but also from rebels and [Free%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Free Cities') units.
Apart from the standard units Barbarians have access to, each Clan can now claim and produce a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) from a major [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) that was not selected during [Starting%20a%20new%20game%20%28Civ6%29](game setup). These units will appear only when the world reaches the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) to which the unit belongs. Other than that, each type of Clan prefers different types of units - see [%23Clans](below) for more details.
Barbarians' basic behavior is still the same as before, as long as they don't interact with the major civilizations. That is to say, they will produce scouts and explore the land, then produce units to raid nearby civilizations. There is one major difference, however: Barbarians now strive to become civilized!
In this mode, Barbarians' technology level scales faster and you may meet advanced barbarian units that no civilization has currently unlocked. Barbarians unlock a new technology once a player unlocks it or gets its Eureka. This is unlike regular barbarians, which unlock a technology when 50% of players have it. This might be intentional so that players have powerful barbarian units to hire.
Civilizing.
The Barbarian Clans mode adds the new civilizing mechanic, through which a Barbarian Clan can turn into a full-fledged city-state. This is accomplished by accumulating progression points for each separate clan. Each turn the clan gains a certain number of points as the most enlightened Barbarian thinkers begin to realize that endless war is not the way. A civilization's interactions with a given clan can also hasten or slow its progress. Should a given clan make full progress towards civilization, the Barbarian outpost will disappear, and in its place will be a brand new city-state (which, of course, will be selected from those not presently in the game). City placement rules still apply, which means that a Barbarian outpost within 3 [hex](hex)es of another city will not turn into a city-state.
Consequently, with Barbarian Clans mode enabled there will always be more city-states than there are in a normal game. This is because some Barbarian outposts always spawn in faraway areas where players and city-states tend to leave them in peace, allowing them to progress towards civilizing while the big guys are occupied with more important matters. A wise player can take advantage of this by exploring as many remote areas as possible to discover remote Barbarian outposts which remain hidden from other players. When the Barbarians found new city-states, these will automatically appear in your list (and you may even gain the free for being the first to meet them). You can then easily become their [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) and gain special bonuses without competition.
Maybe the most interesting part of the mode is the new interaction possibilities. To interact with a Clan, you simply need to discover their home outpost and click on its banner - this will bring up a menu with interaction options, which are described below.
Expanded Barbarian interactions.
The number of turns that Bribe, Hire, and Incite can each be used and remain in effect are dependent on [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](game speed). Numbers below are for Standard speed.
Dispersing vs. Raiding.
Should you defeat a Barbarian outpost in this mode, the choice becomes available to you whether to Disperse the outpost or simply to Raid it. Dispersing it will cause the outpost to act like a defeated Barbarian outpost does in the base game - the Clan will disappear and you will gain any [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Historic Moments) and benefits related to this, but you will not gain . Instead, the unit doing the action will gain 10 [XP](XP). There is also a random chance of getting multiple s when dispersing an outpost (even if the outpost was recently raided). Raiding the outpost leaves it intact, simply capturing a sum of from it. The raiding unit will be ejected from the outpost on the next turn, when a new barbarian unit appears there (this is called a "reprisal attack"). This action does, however, set back that Clan's progress towards civilization, and can only be performed once every 10 turns. Raiding an empty outpost along the coast with a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20raider](naval raider unit) will disperse it, awarding the unit 10 XP.
Clans.
This mode includes seven types of Barbarian Clans. Each clan type has its own preferred range of units to field and requires a different set of [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) conditions in order to appear.