# Barbarian (CivRev)

Barbarians are present in "[Civilization%20Revolution](Civilization Revolution)" and are up to their uncivilized ways once again.
At the start of the game, the Barbarians are really the only enemy (unless one immediately starts to seek out other [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20CivRev](civilizations)). It is possible to go several turns without having any encounter with any other civilization, but it is nearly impossible not to come across these foes. They always have a few villages scattered across the land. The Barbarian villages are usually near the main player-controlled civilization, so finding them shouldn't take much more than a few turns (by which time one may be able to combine three [Warrior%20%28CivRev%29](Warrior) [List%20of%20units%20in%20CivRev](units) to create an [Army%20%28CivRev%29](Army)).
Barbarian villages can spawn on any island larger than three [Tile%20%28CivRev%29](tiles) and on any terrain type that isn't [Mountain%20%28CivRev%29](mountains), [Sea%20%28CivRev%29](sea), or arctic ice sheet. Their physical appearance and leader are dependent on the latitude at which they spawn.
When playing on Deity [Difficulty%20level%20%28CivRev%29](difficulty) or in certain [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20CivRev](scenarios), Barbarians are much more numerous and will attack [City%20%28CivRev%29](cities).
Barbarian Defense and Rewards.
The Barbarian villages vary in strength depending in part on the difficulty level of the game, being stronger at King and above. Barbarians will attack units next to them, and may capture [Caravan%20%28CivRev%29](Caravans).
The strength of a Barbarian village is displayed through the number of red flags with skulls stationed in it. When a village has one flag it only has one unit of Barbarians stationed within it. When a village has two flags it has two units. When a village has three flags it has three units and will attack any adjacent non-Barbarian units. When a village has four flags it is about to send one of its units out into the world.
[Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28CivRev%29](Gold) is the most common reward for destroying Barbarian villages (30, 40, or 50 pieces usually), but on some occasions, the village can yield a [Horsemen%20%28CivRev%29](Horsemen) or [Settlers%20%28CivRev%29](Settlers) unit or give [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20CivRev](technologies). Some coastal villages can give the player a [Galley%20%28CivRev%29](Galley) unit.
All Barbarian villages reveal a [List%20of%20resources%20in%20CivRev](resource) on the tile they once occupied if destroyed by any civilization other than the [Mongolian%20%28CivRev%29](Mongolians). This resource is dependent on the tile's terrain - for example, villages that were located on a hills tile generate [Aluminum%20%28CivRev%29](Aluminum), [Iron%20%28CivRev%29](Iron), or [Coal%20%28CivRev%29](Coal); and villages that were located on a [Forest%20%28CivRev%29](forest) tile generate [Rubber%20%28CivRev%29](Rubber), [Game%20%28CivRev%29](Game), or [Oak%20%28CivRev%29](Oak).
Barbarian villages captured by the Mongolian civilization don't give the player gold or other rewards; instead, they become new Mongolian cities with a [Population%20%28CivRev%29](population) of 1.
Barbarian Village Leaders.
The Barbarian leader of the village (i.e., the man who pops up on the screen as the village is approached) can vary in appearance, but the strength of the village is usually the same...bad.