# Basilikoi Paides (Civ6)

The Basilikoi Paides is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedonian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and replaces the [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks).
Strategy.
The Basilikoi Paides provides all the same benefits as a Barracks, but it also affects Hetairoi and yields equal to 25% of a unit's cost when it is trained. That's already better than the on offer from [Campus%20Research%20Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Campus Research Grants), aside from the lack of points. Still, while there are relatively few ways to boost towards district [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects) (the main one being [Hong%20Kong%20%28Civ6%29](Hong Kong's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerainty) bonus), there are quite a lot of powerful boosts to military unit production. Here are some key examples:
For example, consider training a [Quadrireme%20%28Civ6%29](Quadrireme) in a city with a Basilikoi Paides. If you slot Maritime Industries, grab God of the Forge, and recruit Themistocles, you'll have an additive 145% bonus toward it, which equates to 145% more for your . This Quadrireme will net you 73.5 - almost half of a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology), and 61.25 per 100 , a little more than 4 times more than Campus Research Grants!
This offers Macedon an odd but powerful tool granting potentially tremendous output without too much investment in scientific infrastructure at all. The same focus that this strategy requires is, incidentally, also needed to get a quick [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceport) and rapidly finish your space missions to win a Science Victory. Or you could use your advanced technology to dominate even faster - who could blame you?
Note that the Basilikoi Paides only grants upon units being produced. Purchasing, either with or , does not count.