# Bastions (Civ6)

Bastions is a Military [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
This is the first Military Policy with concrete battlefield effects: it enhances your [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities') battle strength. However, note that the Policy applies only to cities that have Defenses (that is, at least [Ancient%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Walls))! It has two different modifiers: the first works for defense only (that is, whenever the city is attacked, whether in melee or from a distance), while the second only applies to the city's ranged attack, effectively increasing its damage. In any case the Policy is only useful if you expect city combat, and will raise your cities' strength substantially, above the maximum for your current technical level...again, if they have Defenses only!
Bastions is a great Policy to use whenever you are on the receiving end of a surprise declaration of war. Typically this will happen after Turn 50, but sometimes aggressive neighbors may decide to rush you even before that. In this case, you'll be unable to use Bastions because there's no way you will have developed [Defensive%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Defensive Tactics) already. Assuming you do have Bastions, slot it, pull back your forces to your nearest frontier city, try to build Ancient Walls there (if you haven't already), and then surprise the surprise invader by crushing their army!
Bastions may be used through the early and middle game to defend against invasions, especially if you're focusing on different aspects of the game. If you have a strong army, the [AI](AI) will hesitate to attack anyway, and may prefer a more tactical battle on neutral ground - in such case you won't have use for Bastions. And the Policy becomes [obsolete](obsolete) in modern times anyway.