# Battleship (Civ6)

The Battleship is a [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20ranged](naval ranged unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It upgrades from the {{Link6|Frigate}} (or its replacements) and requires {{Coal6}}.
In the "" expansion, the Battleship is unlocked with [Refining%20%28Civ6%29](Refining), and requires 1 {{Coal6}} to train and 1 {{Coal6}} per turn to maintain.
Strategy.
The Battleship is the backbone of the Atomic Era fleet. Bristling with guns, clad in armor, it has longer {{Range6}} than any previous unit in the game, which not only allows it to attack targets far inland, but also to bombard [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) from a safe distance! This (and the fact that naval ranged units deal full damage against cities) effectively turns it into a naval siege engine. However, note that its {{Sight6}} range is still 2, so you'll need something to spot targets for the Battleship to be able to use its full range.
The Battleship can also defend against aerial attacks, and it is the first ship of the modern fleet that can do so. This makes it very important to acquire as early as possible, especially if potential enemies are developing air power. The problem is that the Battleship requires a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resource): {{Coal6}}, just like the [Ironclad%20%28Civ6%29](Ironclad). If you haven't managed to acquire it somehow, your entire fleet will remain stuck in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era)!
Should you find yourself facing off with Battleships, try to hammer them with submarines. They have anti-air capabilities, so they must be dealt with if you want to ensure air superiority!