# Battering Ram (Civ5)

Game Info.
[Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](Unique) siege unit of the [Hunnic%20%28Civ5%29](Hunnic) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Replaces the [Spearman%20%28Civ5%29](Spearman).
Strategy.
The Battering Ram is one of the most interesting additions to "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" in the "" expansion. It replaces the Spearman and acts as a melee siege weapon, more powerful against [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) than the [Catapult%20%28Civ5%29](Catapult) and available earlier.
The Huns are the only civilization that possesses a siege weapon during the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Era), which makes them terrific city rushers. The Battering Ram is, along with the [Giant%20Death%20Robot%20%28Civ5%29](Giant Death Robot), the only unit that can hope to defeat a well-defended city of its [Era%20%28Civ5%29](era) without support - at this stage of the game, two attacks with a single Battering Ram often reduce city defenses to almost zero, allowing for blitz-capture campaigns that can wipe out an entire civilization in 10-15 turns! You just need to calculate your moves in order to be able to bring the ram into position as quickly as possible, and avoid having it destroyed by enemy melee units. (Its Cover I [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion) protects it somewhat from city attacks, and can easily be upgraded to Cover II with the [Barracks%20%28Civ5%29](Barracks) that [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ5%29](Bronze Working) also provides.)
The Battering Ram's devastating power against cities comes with a couple of drawbacks. It replaces the Spearman, which reduces the Huns' power against enemy cavalry in the early game. And of course, the ram can't attack units, since it is, in fact, a specialized weapon.
The Battering Ram upgrades straight to a [Trebuchet%20%28Civ5%29](Trebuchet), which means that the Huns are able to use it alongside Catapults throughout the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Classical) and early [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Medieval Eras). Also, since Cover I is a promotion, it transfers when the ram is upgraded.