# Berserker (Civ6)

The Berserker is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) of the [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norwegian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) and is unlocked with [Military%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tactics).
In the "" expansion, the Berserker requires 10 {{Iron6}} to train.
Strategy.
In [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI", the Berserker started out as one of the worst [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) and belonged to the weakest civilization. The buffs that it has since received have turned it into an absolute menace of Medieval warfare.
The Berserker's prowess peaked with the changes made to it in the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update). It now replaces the Man-At-Arms, so it can be inexpensively upgraded from the [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman) if Norway already has some. Its base {{Strength6}} Combat Strength is now 48, and it receives an additional +10 bonus on offense. The strongest Medieval unit in the game is the [Mandekalu%20Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Mandekalu Cavalry) (with 55 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength), and the strongest standard unit of this [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) is the [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knight) (with 50 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength). A {{Strength6}} Combat Strength of 58 in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) is enough to one-shot [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen) and [Trebuchet%20%28Civ6%29](Trebuchets), and can deal significant damage to Knights. Additionally, the Berserker's defense penalty now applies only against melee attacks, which means Crossbowmen are no longer the bane of Berserkers - only units that can make melee attacks have an advantage when attacking them, and the Knight is the only Medieval melee attacker whose {{Strength6}} Combat Strength is high enough to compete with a Berserker. Berserkers, however, have the same {{Moves6}} as Knights when starting their turn in enemy [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory), so they have nothing to fear as long as they can either avoid or overwhelm the Knights.
For these reasons, the Berserker is designed for one thing only: going on the offensive. Norway's civilization ability allows it to quickly traverse the seas and reach enemy settlements on other [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continents). With 4 {{Moves6}} and a {{Strength6}} Combat Strength of 58 when launching attacks there, it can do great damage to most units and unfortified [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) of the Medieval Era while laying waste to every {{District6}} and [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in its path.