# Biological Warfare Missile (Civ4)

Biological Warfare Missiles are one of the new units available in the "[Next%20War%20%28Civ4%29](Next War)" Scenario/Mod of . At first glance it is a weaker version of the [Guided%20Missile%20%28Civ4%29](Guided Missile), neither being (seemingly) [Gameplay%20%28Civ4%29%23Combat](strong) as, or as immune to [Interception%20%28Civ4%29](interception) as normal guided missiles. In addition, it costs more to produce. It's true strength however lies in its ability to inflict [Collateral%20damage%20%28Civ4%29](collateral damage), that is to hit and damage all the units on a tile at the same time, instead of killing one unit outright. In some ways it is even more potent against [City%20%28Civ4%29](cities), being able not only to damage defending units but also at the same time attack the city's population directly and reduce it significantly. With the right timing (and having other units ready to take advantage) a flurry of such missiles against an enemy army (i.e. unit stack) in the field or against an enemy city can be quite devastating indeed. Note though, that there is a [Anti-Biological%20Warfare%20%28Civ4%29](Anti-Biological Warfare) [Promotion%20%28Civ4%29](promotion) available for units that grants them 75% strength against Biological Warfare Units such as the BWM, in return for a -15% reduction in base unit strength.
Biological Warfare Missiles can be moved and deployed in the same way that Guided Missiles are.
Strategy.
Biological Warfare Missiles can attack enemy units in the field. They can also target cities, reducing the city's population as well as damaging any units in the city.