# Boost (Civ6)

Boosts are a brand new feature introduced in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", representing real-life moments of enlightenment which lead to groundbreaking inventions. The two types of boosts in the game - Eurekas and Inspirations - act as specific ways to progress through the [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) and [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics) tree (respectively) at a much faster rate.
Mechanics.
Boosts are particular gameplay objectives which are tied to a certain tech or civic, and upon completion, players gain 50% (40% after "") of the or required to discover it, plus an additional 10% if you play as [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](China) or if you have the [Ages%20%28Civ6%29%23Dedications](Free Inquiry or Pen, Brush and Voice dedications) respectively, and all of the remaining cost if the boost is a Eureka and you are playing as the [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylonians). For example, you will gain a fraction of the required to unlock [Masonry%20%28Civ6%29](Masonry) when you build a [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarry), and a fraction of the required for [Drama%20and%20Poetry%20%28Civ6%29](Drama and Poetry) when you build a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder).The boost may be activated at any time as long as the respective tech/civic is not yet completed, and can even complete the research in the event that you have already accumulated enough progress in that tech/civic. The interface represents the potential progress boost a Eureka or Inspiration would give you via a hollowed-out color bar in the Progress circle of the tech/civic icon. This hollowed-out bar moves together with any actual research you make on the tech/civic (shown by the bar filling with color). Use this in case you are already researching a tech or civic, and are close to activating its Eureka/ Inspiration - thus you will be able to stop on time and not waste your research by spending more turns than necessary.
Most technologies and practically all civics in the game have Eurekas or Inspirations. The only exceptions are the first three technologies ([Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ6%29](Animal Husbandry), [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining) and [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery)) and the first civic ([Code%20of%20Laws%20%28Civ6%29](Code of Laws)), all of which have none. Most technologies in the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Information Era) and [Future%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Future Era) can only be boosted through s and [Spies%20%28Civ6%29](Spies). [Ideology%20%28Civ6%29](Ideology) and civics in the Future Era can never be boosted.
Other sources of boosts.
Apart from Eurekas and Inspirations earned by performing a designated task, you can earn boosts through:
Note that each boost can only be activated once. For instance, if you earn the [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery) Eureka by visiting a Tribal Village, killing a unit with a [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29](Slinger) will not give you more progress.
Strategy.
The main goal of the boost system is to diversify the development of a civilization according to unique sets of elements present in each playthrough. Their activation depends on the most diverse things: particular features in nearby [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain), battle conditions, or sometimes simply chance events in the game. It is also possible to get these boosts through activating Tribal Villages, which makes the system even more random! You can never be sure what sort of bonuses the game will give you, so you will have to change your strategy accordingly, even when playing with the same civilization! For example, sometimes circumstances will give you early access to a certain wonder, offering you the compelling temptation to go for it (even if your strategy doesn't call for this). Other times, the boosts will throw you into a different part of the tech or civics tree altogether, again requiring a strategy adjustment. A wise player will always take Eurekas and Inspirations into account, and use the opportunities they give instead of insisting on a fixed research strategy - this way, progress will be much faster.