# Brazilian (Civ6)

The Brazilian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Pedro%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Pedro II), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are green and yellow.
The Brazilians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Amazon, which causes [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) in their territory to provide a +1 [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) bonus (instead of the usual -1) and a standard adjacency bonus to the yields of [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs), [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), and [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Minas%20Geraes%20%28Civ6%29](Minas Geraes) (which replaces the [Battleship%20%28Civ6%29](Battleship)), and their unique is the [Street%20Carnival%20%28Civ6%29](Street Carnival) (which replaces the [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex)). In "", they can also build the [Copacabana%20%28Civ6%29](Copacabana) (which replaces the [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 2 towards [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests)"
Able to flourish in the middle of the jungle, Brazil is able to generate a constant stream of [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great People) to serve their every endeavor. Also armed with the most powerful and impactful unique warship in the game, the [Minas%20Geraes%20%28Civ6%29](Minas Geraes), Brazil can go on any victory path they deem suitable, the easiest being [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory).
Amazon.
"Rainforest tiles provide a +1 adjacency bonus".
Brazil almost always starts near Rainforest, and so the this ability will generally be the first to be useful, and remain useful throughout the game. At the start of the game, a Rainforest tile will give 2 and 1 , which is as good as any improved non-bonus, non-luxury tile. Later in the game, the of a Rainforest pales in comparison to a [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farm), and most civilizations will find that removing it in favor of farming it results in the better yield.
For Brazil, however, Rainforests will be useful throughout the entire game, as long as you have built the appropriate districts adjacent to them. Since the adjacency bonus applies for each adjacent Rainforest, it can be useful to build a single district in the middle of a circle of Rainforest tiles for maximum adjacency bonuses. 
In "", [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) are among the easiest s to gain adjacency for, what with massive bonuses from [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs) and [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures), and additional bonuses for [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains), so these premier Rainforest-adjacent tiles should be reserved primarily for [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares). 
Though Brazil is generally not a religious civilization, they can become one if they choose the [Sacred%20Path%20%28Civ6%29](Sacred Path) [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](Pantheon). While Sacred Path and Rainforest are generally not as reliable as [Dance%20of%20the%20Aurora%20%28Civ6%29](Dance of the Aurora) with [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) or [Desert%20Folklore%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Folklore) with [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert), the bonus is still very useful when attempting to purchase [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists), [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands), and [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great People). This strategy can be coupled with the Work Ethic belief to give Brazilian Rainforest settlements massive in addition to .
Building [Chichen%20Itza%20%28Civ6%29](Chichen Itza) provides a massive bonus (+2 , +1 ) for all Rainforest tiles in its [City%20%28Civ6%29](city). Use this to turn a city in the middle of the jungle into a productive and cultural monster. In addition, in "Gathering Storm", it is possible to build [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mills) that will increase the of Rainforest tiles after researching [Mercantilism%20%28Civ6%29](Mercantilism).
"Bonus Appeal to Rainforests".
If you activate the Appeal Lens in any game which contains Brazil as a player, you will see that the jungle regions inside their territory will be saturated green (meaning Breathtaking Appeal), while everyone else's will be sadly gray, or even orange (Average or lower Appeal). 
This becomes very important towards the end of the game if Brazil is pursuing a Cultural Victory, because it will aid the placement of [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) and [Seaside%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Seaside Resorts). As mentioned, although it may seem at first glance that [Sacred%20Path%20%28Civ6%29](Sacred Path) is Brazil's strongest pantheon choice, the increased Appeal from Rainforest tiles can at times make [Earth%20Goddess%20%28Civ6%29](Earth Goddess) a better choice, as it can provide +1 on many of Brazil's tiles. Check the appeal [Lens%20%28Civ6%29](lens) before choosing which will be better for you. 
With the [Vietnam%20%26amp%3B%20Kublai%20Khan%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam &amp; Kublai Khan Pack), Brazil now has access to the [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserve). While other civs spawning in Rainforest would never build the Preserve due to their negative Appeal, Brazil actually encourages it, as both adjacent [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) and Rainforest will grant Appeal to one another. Preserves on crucial tiles can turn Brazilian National Parks into productive tiles that can more than rival the [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mills) that you may want to place after researching [Mercantilism%20%28Civ6%29](Mercantilism). 
Magnanimous.
No matter what type of playstyle you go for,  are always useful. Retaining 20% of the points means it will be faster to earn the next one. This is only useful if you're planning on recruiting several of the same type, but that's the case more often than not. It's arguably less useful to recruit several [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals) and [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals) in succession as their effect won't stack, and you are only able to recruit a single [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet), but for any other type of , the more, the better.
The [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineers) and [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchants) in particular are very versatile in their bonuses. The latter can provide bonuses to (Cultural Victory), free tactical resources (to build units for [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory)) and s (useful for practically any victory type).
The [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle) can be very handy in making the most of this ability, as it cuts the cost of patronizing with by 25%. Combining this with the [Sacred%20Path%20%28Civ6%29](Sacred Path) or [Earth%20Goddess%20%28Civ6%29](Earth Goddess pantheons) as mentioned above in a city with many different districts can make Brazil a powerhouse. A that Brazil may want to look to recruit is the Great Scientist [Alfred%20Nobel%20%28Civ6%29](Alfred Nobel), who will give Brazil 100 free points to all current and future , further making Magnanimous easier to capitalize on. In addition, since Alfred Nobel is from the same era as the amazing [Albert%20Einstein%20%28Civ6%29](Albert Einstein), patronizing Nobel will grant additional points toward Einstein, making it easier to recruit him.
In addition, the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus) can be very useful to Brazil, as it gives all of their [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineers) an extra charge. This will be very useful, particularly if Brazil decides to go for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory).
Street Carnival.
While it may at first appear to be very underwhelming, the Street Carnival is actually an incredibly versatile district that can keep up with a city's need for and points. +2 rather than +1 and being 50% cheaper than the default Entertainment Complex means that even the newest cities can build them quickly and have their needs taken care of for a long time. This in fact makes the Street Carnival 4x as effective as a regular [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex), as it is constructed in half the time and grants double the reward.
The Street Carnival grants access to the [Carnival%20%28Civ6%29](Carnival) project, which provides +1 additional while being pursued, allowing from [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](Luxury Resources) to be given out to other cities that may need them more. Carnival earns , , , , and points upon completion. The , , and points given are the same as if one had gained them through [Theater%20Square%20Performances%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square Performances); and and points are half as much given if one had gained them through [Industrial%20Zone%20Projects%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone Projects) or [Commercial%20Hub%20Investment%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub Investments). This makes it completely eclipse the [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square) project, which becomes redundant for anything other than gaining .
Note that since "Rise and Fall", the Street Carnival gives access to "two" different projects (the aforementioned Carnival and the default [Bread%20and%20Circuses%20%28Civ6%29](Bread and Circuses)), which makes it even more versatile. You can easily implement the Loyalty push strategy with it, because it is much cheaper to build than a normal Entertainment Complex, and Brazil would really benefit from it anyway.
Copacabana.
Brazil is unique in that it is the only civilization in the game with two unique Districts. As the Water Park is generally much better than the Entertainment Complex, the Copacabana should be prioritized over the Street Carnival in cities that need it. 
The Copacabana serves the same purpose for Brazil as its Street Carnival, providing and a bevy of points when they undertake its special Carnival project. It becomes available later in the game than the Street Carnival, but once it does, it makes a welcome addition to [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) or island cities that have yet to build an -boosting district. Its buildings also provide useful bonuses to and .
Like the Street Carnival, the Copacabana also gives its parent city access to the unique Carnival project and the default [Bread%20and%20Circuses%20%28Civ6%29](Bread and Circuses).
Because of how powerful this is, Brazil should always consider making a beeline for [Natural%20History%20%28Civ6%29](Natural History). While the [Minas%20Geraes%20%28Civ6%29](Minas Geraes) is unlocked at a different civic in the same [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era), it also requires (in the "Gathering Storm" expansion, at least), so unlocking the Copacabana first may not actually delay the Minas Geraes.
Minas Geraes.
The Minas Geraes is not only stronger than the Battleship it replaces, but also available a whole era earlier (that is, if you keep your [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) development going strong). This gives the Brazilian player an incredible edge, if they know how to use it right!
Of course, in order to use this edge, you need a developed maritime infrastructure, able to produce enough ships to make a difference in battle. Go on the offensive and show that Brazilians know other stuff besides how to dance and have fun! Helpfully, the Minas Geraes benefits from the bonus from [Press%20Gangs%20%28Civ6%29](Press Gangs) - normal Battleships only get a bonus from [International%20Waters%20%28Civ6%29](International Waters), which arrives far later. That said, the easiest way to produce many Minas Geraes is still to have built the [Venetian%20Arsenal%20%28Civ6%29](Venetian Arsenal) beforehand, which should not be difficult considering most players rate it low priority unless playing on a water-heavy [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map), and most [AI](AI) [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) won't prioritize or even have a viable tile to place it.
The increased anti-air capacity of these ships will allow them to easily tear into air power, and to an extent, [Aircraft%20Carrier%20%28Civ6%29](Aircraft Carriers). However, they are still vulnerable to [Submarine%20%28Civ6%29](Submarine) attacks. Nevertheless, the Minas Geraes is, relatively speaking, the most powerful naval unit in the game, and can easily net Brazil a coastal empire in the era it becomes available.
Finally, note that while the Minas Geraes is unlocked through the civic tree, in the "Gathering Storm" expansion it requires , which is unlocked with a [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) ([Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization)) in the same era. As such, pure output is not enough to rush this unit - you will need as well. Fortunately, Industrialization is a direct prerequisite for [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight), a vital technology for cultural civs, and because just one Minas Geraes will confer its strength to the defenses of all your cities, you will become a harder target for even land invasions!
Victory Types.
With their focus on , Brazil is a versatile civilization capable of pursuing any victory type. 
They are most geared toward a Cultural Victory, as the Carnival project makes [Theater%20Square%20Performances%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square Performances) basically obsolete, and Amazon makes getting high adjacency on your [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) much easier than most other civs.
Science Victory also greatly benefits from , making it another viable approach. However, note that Carnival does not grant points, so some important that other scientific civs may usually look to recruit such as [Carl%20Sagan%20%28Civ6%29](Carl Sagan) and [Stephanie%20Kwolek%20%28Civ6%29](Stephanie Kwolek) must be recruited through [Campus%20Research%20Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Campus Research Grants) and not Carnival. However, Carnival does grant points, which can help Brazil recruit [Robert%20Goddard%20%28Civ6%29](Robert Goddard), [Sergei%20Korolev%20%28Civ6%29](Sergei Korolev), or [Wernher%20von%20Braun%20%28Civ6%29](Wernher von Braun) more easily than most of those same scientific civs (though [German%20%28Civ6%29](Germany) and [Scottish%20%28Civ6%29](Scotland) have their own bonuses in this regard). If you take this approach to Brazil, look to keep your Rainforest late into the game for adjacency bonuses and then chop it to rush space projects.
While their Amazon ability may provide bonus , Brazil isn't as well suited for a Religious Victory as other true religious civilizations, though it is not entirely out of the question if you want to challenge yourself. It's also a path you can pivot from easily, as you can use the to support other victory types the same way [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan) and [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia) can with their high-adjacency Holy Sites.
Domination Victory for Brazil is heavily [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) dependent, thanks to the Minas Geraes. If the map is water-dominated, it is easy for Brazil to wrest control of the oceans with their powerful naval vessel once it is unlocked; beware only of the lack of power spikes that Brazil has in the preceding eras. However, on land-dominated maps, when naval units do not have as much impact, it is better to choose other paths. On the domination front, it is important to note that if Brazil invests in Encampments and Harbors (which would normally be a bad idea, given that neither of them benefit from their rainforest adjacency bonuses), they can quickly earn many [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals) and [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals) to bolster the strength of their army and navy, thanks to the refunded points of Magnanimous.
Brazil doesn't have any particular bonuses towards a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory).
Counter Strategy.
Brazil is a good invasion target for civs inclined that way, as they lack a defensive bonus outside of their counter-synergistic, late-arriving unique unit - and they should absolutely be prioritised for early attack on water-heavy maps, where the Minas Geraes can be dominant for the entire second half of the game. If you take a Brazilian city but you can't hold it for long, buy in a Builder to chop Rainforest and the city will be significantly weaker when it returns to Brazilian hands (as Rainforest can never be replaced). 
Trying to stop them more peacefully? Be aware that you'll have a harder time than usual competing for Great People, especially those generated from Carnival projects. If there are any specific targets that are particularly powerful for your game, don't be afraid to use patronage to get them before Pedro can. 