# Brazilian (Civ5)

The Brazilian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
The Brazilians are designed for [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory) thanks to their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) that grants double bonus and increases [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great Person) generation during s. As such, players should emphasize building up a lot of to trigger s more often, in addition to building [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders) and producing [Great%20Writer%20%28Civ5%29](Great Writers), [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ5%29](Artists), and [Great%20Musician%20%28Civ5%29](Musicians).
Unfortunately, the Brazilians tend to suffer horribly in the early game due to their [Jungle%20%28Civ5%29](jungle) [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ5%29](start bias). Since they don't have any special abilities to make use of jungles before the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Medieval Era), the Brazilians may lag in building many important wonders for cultural victory due to the lack of early . On the other hand, it's advisable to avoid, at any cost, cutting down too many jungle tiles, because of their great usefulness later on. Not only do they provide some good early game defenses (thus making Brazil a bit difficult to eliminate early in the game), they also allow the Brazilians to build the unique and valuable [Brazilwood%20Camp%20%28Civ5%29](Brazilwood Camp), which not only provides , but also upon the discovery of [Acoustics%20%28Civ5%29](Acoustics). This allows the Brazilians to adopt [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies) relatively faster, have a great excess of wealth, and expand their own borders faster. Additionally, the Brazilwood Camps don't destroy the jungle, so you will still have additional output from jungles after building [University%20%28Civ5%29](Universities).
The best use of the Brazilians' [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique unit), the [Pracinha%20%28Civ5%29](Pracinha), is to start a war against your major rival for cultural victory immediately after the unit becomes available. Wait for them to gather cultural power and build wonders, then strike! This way you not only cripple (or even eliminate) the competition, but also acquire their [Great%20Work%20%28Civ5%29](Great Works) and wonders (which, of course, will be culturally aimed) and boost your meter! Of course, this strategy is a little risky, since it might be too late or too costly to go to war if your rival has become too powerful.