# Bronze Working (Civ6)

Bronze Working is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by killing any 3 [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units).
Strategy.
Bronze is the first fruit of the technological development of an early civilization - a pliable metal which is easily shaped, but hard and durable. Bronze proves so useful in creating durable tools of all sorts that it ushers a whole new age in human history. Even the tangled [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests) can't resist these new tools!
But it is one of its particular uses which proves much more important than anything else: its use in creating weapons and armor. In short, before bronze there were wooden clubs with stone heads; after bronze there are swords, spears, shields, and armor. Thus the military aspect of a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) is born, with a new , the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment); its first [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building), the [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks) (specialized in infantry training); a new type of melee warrior, the [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman); and a whole new excitement about using metals, which leads to the revelation of the next [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](Strategic Resource) in the game: .
Bronze Working is one of the most important techs in the late Ancient Era, especially when you need to plan your first expansions. Revealing deposits early will help you secure this most important and useful resource, while also boosting your overall military development through a new district and unit! This, and the fact that it is easy to unlock (with only [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining), one of the first two techs most players research, as a prerequisite) makes it an obvious choice for second or third tech: second if you don't particularly care for [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion), third if you do. But even if you're not particularly militaristic and don't care about , you will eventually need this tech to continue down the lower part of the tech tree.