# Building (Col)

Most buildings are workplaces where your [List%20of%20units%20in%20Colonization%20%281994%29](units) manufacture [goods](goods). A brand new colony begins with a few basic buildings. [Hammer%20%28Col%29](Hammers) and [Tools%20%28Col%29](Tools) are used to build new ones. Some buildings serve other purposes; see below.
The [Town%20hall%20%28Col%29](Town hall) cannot be upgraded. It produces [liberty%20bell](liberty bell)s by itself if your population is below 3. The [Printing%20press%20%28Col%29](Printing press) and [Newspaper%20%28Col%29](Newspaper) increase your liberty bell production (in the Town hall); they do not directly employ workers.
A [Chapel](Chapel) does not permit a [Firebrand%20Preachers%20%28Col%29](Firebrand Preachers) to work; you must have a [Church%20%28Col%29](Church) or a [Cathedral%20%28Col%29](Cathedral) for that. These buildings produce [Crosses%20%28Col%29](Crosses) by themselves.
[Docks%20%28Col%29](Docks) may only be built in coastal colonies; they allow you to work on water tiles to produce [Fish%20%28Col%29](Fish), which become [Food](Food). A [Drydock%20%28Col%29](Drydock) lets you repair damaged ships (without one, they will be repaired in [Europe](Europe)), and a [Shipyard%20%28Col%29](Shipyard) lets you produce your own ships. These buildings do not directly employ workers. Fishers work on water tiles, and ships are built with Hammers and Tools.
The [Depot](Depot), [Warehouse%20%28Col%29](Warehouse) and [Warehouse%20Expansion%20%28Col%29](Warehouse Expansion) are used to store goods. They hold 100, 200 or 300 of each good (respectively).
The [Stockade%20%28Col%29](Stockade), [Fort%20%28Col%29](Fort) and [Fortress%20%28Col%29](Fortress) provide a defense bonus to your units inside the colony. They do not produce anything.
A [Custom%20house%20%28Col%29](Custom house) lets you sell goods directly from your warehouses, without needing to sail them to [Europe](Europe).
A [Stable%20%28Col%29](Stable) allows you to breed [Horses%20%28Col%29](Horses). You must have at least 2 Horses to begin with (they must be purchased in Europe initially). Horse production requires [Grain](Grain), and reduces the amount of [Food](Food) going toward your population increase.
Any building can have a maximum of three workers, with the exception of the Schoolhouse, College and University. 
A [Schoolhouse%20%28Col%29](Schoolhouse), [College%20%28Col%29](College) or [University%20%28Col%29](University) lets your specialist units teach their skills. These buildings support 1, 2 or 3 simultaneous teachers, respectively. Each teacher may have 1 student at a time. Any skill may be taught in a University; most can be taught in a College; and only the simplest in a Schoolhouse. A [Free%20Colonists%20%28Col%29](Free Colonist) may learn any skill this way. An [Indentured%20Servants%20%28Col%29](Indentured Servant) may become a Free Colonist, and a [Petty%20Criminals%20%28Col%29](Petty Criminal) may become an Indentured Servant (both of these upgrades are independent of the teacher's specialty).