# Building (Civ6)

A building is a permanent structure that can be built in a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) to provide a bonus. In "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" buildings are less centralized, as some can be built in the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center), but most are built in a specific . In this way, during war, the enemy may [Combat%20%28Civ6%29%23Pillaging](Pillage) districts and disable some of the buildings in a city without actually conquering it. It also means that in "", [Disasters%20%28Civ6%29](disasters) may devastate whole groups of buildings when they hit the district they're situated in.
Constructing buildings can be accelerated via Industrial [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). The gains a +2 bonus from every such City-State where you have at least 1 . All other cities which have an [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) (including the , if it has one) will gain a +2 bonus from every such city-state where you have 3 s, and another +2 if you have 6 s. In "", however, these two bonuses are awarded only if the Industrial Zone contains a [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop) and a [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory) (respectively).
Note that, once constructed, a building cannot be removed from a city. Unlike in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", buildings cannot be sold.
Requirements.
As in all "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games, all buildings need to meet specific requirements before they can be built in a city. These are:
Effects.
Every building in a city enhances its usefulness in some way. Most of the time this means increasing certain yields, such as or , but it may also mean extra , , or even extra defense for the city. But "Civilization VI" and its innovative territory use system adds some unique possibilities, such as for an inland city to access [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Ocean) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) via the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor), and be able to build ships there.
Buildings in specialty districts (such as the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) and the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus)) also provide slots where Citizens may work as Specialists, producing rare yields independently of what [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) there is nearby. This is especially useful in the early game, when producing yields like and is more difficult. Note that, unlike in "Civilization V", Specialists don't contribute to generation, but that hardly matters because buildings themselves already contribute to that, without the need to assign Specialists to work in them.
Another interesting feature is some building effects now extend not only to the parent city, but also to all other cities within a certain range, as is the case with the bonus of the [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory), or the bonus of the [Zoo%20%28Civ6%29](Zoo). Buildings of this type can only be found in the Industrial Zone and [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex), so it is beneficial to build those districts in locations within 6 tiles of as many City Centers as possible.
Finally, most of the slots for [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works), Relics, and Artifacts are found within buildings.
Buildings with regional effects.
As mentioned above, Tier 2 and 3 buildings of the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone), [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) and [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park) (in "") can have their effects extended to every city within a radius (6-tile radius for the Industrial Zone and Entertainment Complex, 9-tile radius for the Water Park). The radius is counted from the where the building is situated to City Centers of adjacent cities. Effects of multiple copies of the same buildings do not stack, with the exception of the city which has [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) with [Vertical%20Integration%20%28Civ6%29](Vertical Integration).
Since regional building bonuses do not normally stack you should lay out where you want your regional districts to go early on with map pins. This is important because it can prevent overlap on the semi-useful districts that provide and you may only need 1 [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) to reach 4 or more cities. [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Parks) can be harder to plan for, because they must be placed on [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tiles, but they reach 9 tiles away to compensate.
While choosing for regional bonuses can be extremely helpful with entertainment districts, its not so simple for the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone). You don't want to neglect early adjacency bonuses for your Industrial Zone while deciding if your Factory will "eventually" hit as many cities as possible. The adjacency bonuses tend to be top priority and building additional factories doesn't hurt so bad if they don't reach as far as you'd like.
[Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) act as a sort of Regional building as well, spreading your [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Pressure) to any city within 9 tiles of the district. If it is your Holy City then the amount of pressure is multiplied by 4. In "" the religious [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor) [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha) is very helpful for increasing the spread of religious pressure and reducing pressure received.
Once becomes involved in , things get even trickier as climate change becomes a real issue and running even a couple of [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plants) can have drastic consequences from environmental effects like [Drought%20%28Civ6%29](drought) and [Storm%20%28Civ6%29](hurricanes) or sea levels rising to swallow up [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal lowland tiles) completely. This is where the adjacency bonus needs to be weighed more carefully to ensure you have a smooth transition into safer resources/renewable energy. Maybe you've gotten lucky and have [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures) and [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams) to take the stress off of your Coal Plants before you unlock [Solar%20Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Solar Farms) and [Wind%20Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Wind Farms). Either way, you will want to limit the amount of Coal Power Plants that you build unless you're going for a mid-game win or can upgrade them to cleaner plants as increased global temperature can hurt cities in all locations. Read more on the page.
Below is the list of all buildings with regional effects:
Great People bonuses.
Currently only 3 [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineers) are useful for providing bonuses to regional buildings.