# Buttress (Civ6)

Buttress is a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "". It can be hurried by building a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) or later [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder).
Strategy.
Mathematical developments lead to the invention of this important architectural element, which allows [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) to build very interesting and large structures capable of supporting incredible stress. The element quickly finds use in civil construction, enabling the next stage of large-scale infrastructure. We're talking about the [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam), a [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) that is both the most reliable protection against [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](river floods) and a useful source of midgame . This tech also unlocks the [Hagia%20Sophia%20%28Civ6%29](Hagia Sophia), an important wonder for any religious player.
Buttress is an indispensable tech for seafaring civilizations since it leads to [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography) and [Mass%20Production%20%28Civ6%29](Mass Production), both of which represent the next level of exploration and naval military tech. These, in turn, lead to the later [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization), which unlocks a sea of new opportunities for players. However, all of this is quite forward-thinking (i.e., two [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) in the future). More immediately, the Dam is a nice new addition, but not that urgent to build unless your [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) close to [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers) have hit their ceiling. Unless you're an exploration aficionado, you should go for other Medieval techs first, such as [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship).