# Byzantine (Civ5)

The Byzantine people (or Eastern Romans) represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "". They are led by .
Strategy.
The Byzantines are a versatile civilization. On one hand, they have the most powerful early game naval vessel: the [Dromon%20%28Civ5%29](Dromon). This is the only ranged naval vessel in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient) and [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Classical Era), and gives the Byzantines a great advantage against both [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](barbarians) and the navy of any other civilization early in the game. Not only is it able to attack from afar, but it also has a Bonus vs Naval, making it devastating against [Trireme%20%28Civ5%29](Triremes)!
On the other hand, they're the only civilization that can have six beliefs in their [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](religion) instead of the usual five (excluding the Reformation Belief). The Bonus Belief for the Byzantines can be a Pantheon, a Founder Belief, a Follower Belief, or an Enhancer Belief, and is added at religion foundation - another great advantage, since the Byzantines start their religion with four beliefs rather than the usual three, and are able to choose an Enhancer Belief earlier than others, potentially gaining access to the whole pool of Enhancer Beliefs, even if they didn't manage to develop their religion first!
To take maximum advantage of these features, develop them as a religious civilization. Research [Pottery%20%28Civ5%29](Pottery) first, then build a [Shrine%20%28Civ5%29](Shrine) to kick-start your production, then try to form a full religion and enhance it quickly to have maximum choice of Beliefs. Tailor your religion so as to fit the type of [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) you want. More importantly, you will also have to develop the [Piety%20%28Civ5%29](Piety) tree, which will maximize the power of your religion.
Put your secondary focus on seafaring. Use the early ranged power of the Dromon and the heavy [Cataphract%20%28Civ5%29](Cataphract) mounted unit to attack [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) of other civilizations and enlarge your empire early on.
If you decide to take the Byzantines along the cultural route, choose the World Church Founder Belief (+1 for every 5 foreign followers) and use one of two routes to spread your religion and ensure it remains strong. The first is a "hands-on" approach using the bonus slot for Pilgrimage, a second Founder Belief (+2 per foreign city following your religion). Later, you can get the Enhancer Belief, Holy Order, which combined with [Mandate%20of%20Heaven%20%28Civ5%29](Mandate of Heaven) halves the cost of [Missionary%20%28Civ5%29](Missionaries) and [Inquisitor%20%28Civ5%29](Inquisitors). Combining these two beliefs and this [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policy) will ensure you get many Missionaries to spread your religion. The other route will passively spread your religion quickly and will scale nicely as it grows. Use the bonus slot for Religious Texts (Enhancer) to increase your religious pressure by 25% (increasing to 50% with [Printing%20Press%20%28Civ5%29](Printing Press)). After that, you can use the second Enhancer Belief for Itinerant Preachers, increasing the range of pressure by 30%. This method is automatic and only available to the Byzantines as it uses two Enhancer beliefs.
With the new changes in "", the Byzantines are capable of getting an even earlier start on their boom. This can be accomplished by rushing the Piety tree, which is now open for policies beginning in the Ancient Era. This will allow you to secure your first [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ5%29](Great Prophet) rather quickly.