# C-evo advances affecting air units

Many of [C-evo](C-evo)'s [advance%20%28C-evo%29](advance)s add some factor to future [unit%20%28C-evo%29](unit) design or allow a [building%20%28C-evo%29](building) that strengthens all units in a [city%20%28C-evo%29](city). This page concentrates on advances affecting [air%20unit%20%28C-evo%29](air unit)s but notes effects of those advances on other services.
"Notes: 
"The Manual divides advances into four groups, based roughly on chronology, but an alphabetical listing has advantages and is used here. Other arrangements of these data are possible and are likely to be created as alternatives by selective copying from this table when it has all links in."
"Abbreviations:
""Cost to" stands for "[Cost%20multiplier%20%28C-evo%29](Cost multiplier) increased to"; "Cost +" (used for a [Future%20Technology%20%28C-evo%29](Future Technology)) means [Cost%20multiplier%20%28C-evo%29](Cost multiplier) increases by the specified amount; see http://c-evo.org/forum/p-397-1.html and http://c-evo.org/forum/p-397-1-1-1.html for relevant forum postings about cost
""Max wt" stands for "Maximum [weight%20%28C-evo%29](weight) [of that type of unit] rises to"
""Str" stands for "[Strength%20multiplier%20%28C-evo%29](Strength multiplier)"
""Trans" stands for "[Transport%20multiplier%20%28C-evo%29](Transport multiplier)"
 The term "multiplier" is perhaps misleading for "additive" "factors" but its use is actually correct.
Advances for strength of future air unit designs, with cost increases.
Unlike ground and naval units, air units have a simple progression with strength and cost increasing together. 
Cost levels and strength increases:
With all of those, a typical attack plane with one spare fuel tank could have [A/D/M](A/D/M) of 255/51/12.5 and cost 224 [material%20%28C-evo%29](material)s.
At that stage you could almost certainly produce ground units with greater strengths more cheaply, but the ability to overfly water and enemy zones of control can be of great value. In addition, however, by replacing Weapons modules with Bombs modules you can double the attack strength, e.g. getting 0/51/12.5 with 510 "bombs" - the disadvantage being that you have only one shot per flight and then have a [civil%20unit%20%28C-evo%29](civil unit) until it returns for refuelling and restocking of the bomb bays.
At the 224 material cost, [line%20production%20%28C-evo%29](line production) would certainly be appropriate unless you expected to produce fewer than four such units.
A potential increase in defensive strength comes (as with ground and naval units) with [Steel%20%28C-evo%29](Steel), which allows a fourth defensive module for air and naval units (and a third for ground units) without an increase in total [weight%20%28C-evo%29](weight) allowance or module strength. However, because air units have no part in [city%20%28C-evo%29](city) defense, if you stick to single-trip aircraft (i.e. craft without extra [fuel%20%28C-evo%29](fuel)) you may have no use for any defensive modules. Steel is not essential for any other aspect of air units except [Combined%20Arms%20%28C-evo%29](Combined Arms), though it may have been a contributor to your discovery of [Mass%20Production%20%28C-evo%29](Mass Production) and it is virtually compulsory for well-armored [ground%20unit%20%28C-evo%29](ground unit)s and [naval%20unit%20%28C-evo%29](naval unit)s.
Speed and other factors.
[Glider%20%28C-evo%29](Glider) speed is 4.5. Not everybody who can builds a glider. One particularly good use for them is to explore the Arctic and Antarctic strips where oceans are difficult to cross. They are not damaged by landing on [hostile%20terrain%20%28C-evo%29](hostile terrain).
Your, and your rivals', first new air units are likely to have a speed of 8.5 if built under urgency. You cannot buy more speed - the only possible upgrade is to research [Rocketry%20%28C-evo%29](Rocketry), after which your new air units all have a speed of 12.5. 
Related to speed is range: the number of turns you can stay in the air before having to return to a city, [aircraft%20carrier%20%28C-evo%29](aircraft carrier), or [military%20base%20%28C-evo%29](military base). 
You extend the range using modules of the [Unit%20Capacity%20%28C-evo%29](Unit Capacity) called "[Fuel%20%28C-evo%29](Fuel)", which are available without prerequisites but add to the construction cost and take up some of the [weight%20%28C-evo%29](weight) quota. 
After you have discovered [Flight%20%28C-evo%29](Flight) and [Rocketry%20%28C-evo%29](Rocketry), you can, for example, build a [Jet%20Fighter%20%28C-evo%29](Jet Fighter) with [A/D/M](A/D/M) 32/32/12.5 with 3 fuel modules, costing 130, possibly of little use for attacking but able to explore a long way from your cities or carriers or bases (two turns out and two back - but be careful to avoid the risk of having your return route blocked). If you wait for [Advanced%20Flight%20%28C-evo%29](Advanced Flight) before designing, your additional weight allowance will let you have 5 fuel modules or significantly more strength. 
However, you may design cheap early air units whose main function is to block enemy air and naval units: 0/12/12.5 or 0/12/8.5 with four fuel spares is possible if you have researched Flight and Rocketry before Tactics; cost 70.
[Intelligence%20%28C-evo%29](Intelligence) allows [Spy%20Plane%20%28C-evo%29](Spy Plane)s, which can investigate cities and unit stacks in the same detail as can the much cheaper ground unit, the predesigned [Special%20Commando%20%28C-evo%29](Special Commando). See exactly what an enemy city contains and is building, so that you know, for example:
If you can delay designing Spy Planes until you have Advanced Flight, they can have the same range as your early blocking units (because of the additional weight allowance) and will be cheaper (and can therefore supersede them) if you use [line%20production%20%28C-evo%29](line production).
[Communism%20%28C-evo%29](Communism) allows you to design [Fanatic%20%28C-evo%29](Fanatic) units, which deal more damage and can therefore be used for tactical kamikaze if their attack strength (weapons or bombs) is at least half the target's defensive strength: both die. That can be the cheapest way to get ground units into an enemy city.
[Stealth](Stealth) lets you design air units that are generally invisible to enemies. Probably pointless unless your enemies have air units.
Standard AI.
Opponents with [Standard%20AI](Standard AI) cannot build air units; so against them you need no defensive modules except the compulsory one and you need not build air defenses in cities or in ships.