# Cahokia Mounds (Civ6)

The Cahokia Mounds are a special [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in ". "It can be built by a player that is the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of the [Cahokia%20%28Civ6%29](Cahokia) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state).
Strategy.
A very solid tile improvement, the Cahokia Mounds are one of 3 [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) improvements in the game that grant (the others being the [Monastery%20%28Civ6%29](Monastery) and the [Mahavihara%20%28Civ6%29](Mahavihara)). This improvement can solve any issues a city may have. Cahokia Mounds are even stronger than the Monastery and Mahavihara since its other bonuses (, , ) have a much wider scope of applicability. In the late game try to build two in every city to take advantage of the bonus Amenity. A fantastic improvement that grants all the essentials to an early empire, the Cahokia Mounds should be the reason why you should definitely devote your [Envoy%20%28Civ6%29](Envoy) power into Cahokia, the earlier the better. Beware, since , , and are what everyone needs, the competition for Cahokia's Suzerainty will be tough, especially when you do not spawn right next to it. 
The bonus is received even when the improvement is built in a tile owned by the city but outside of its workable range (4th or 5th ring). The bonus is also received but limited to only +1 per improvement, even after Cultural Heritage is discovered (same behavior as the Monastery improvement). This is useful for large cities that are running out of usable tiles. 