# Campus (Civ6)

The Campus is a specialty in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", dedicated to and technological advancement. It requires the [Writing%20%28Civ6%29](Writing) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology).
## Overview

Buildings.
The following [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) can be constructed in a Campus:
Strategy.
The Campus is one of the most important specialty districts. Campuses are your primary source of science for most gameplay strategies and are one of the first districts to become available. Also, a number of [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders), starting with the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ6%29](Great Library), must be constructed adjacent to a Campus.
At first, the main source of output comes from the Campus [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses). Due to their prevalence, 2 or 3 adjacent [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) for each Campus is a strong placement choice (second only to those combined with a [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissure) in ""). [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest) tiles are also helpful; a pair of them will provide a +1 bonus to an adjacent Campus, and they're easy to find if a city happens to be near the "equator" of the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). However, they can also be cleared to provide lump sums of and and/or free up land for other districts after researching [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working), so make a point of preserving any Rainforests next to your Campuses unless you no longer care about the adjacency bonus.
By the same token, it is advisable to seek out such terrains for planning a "science city." [Natural%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Philosophy) doubles all Campus adjacency bonuses; however, you will most likely have few Campuses when this [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) first becomes available, which limits its usefulness. Adjacency bonuses can also serve as a guide for prioritizing Campuses, [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs)/[Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbors), and [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) (of which you only need one in the early game unless your strategy involves purchasing).
In the early game, any [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) bonus to will be massive. Therefore, scientific city-states are much sought after early on, which puts heavy emphasis on initial scouting. The first bonus from any scientific city-state provides a net +2 in your . The second and the third bonuses are +2 in every Campus (although in "" these require a specific building). This can be further assisted by [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29%23Founder](Papal Primacy), which you may select if you happen to run into a scientific city-state early on. The second bonus is most attainable early in the game: you can obtain 1 free from first contact, a second with [Diplomatic%20League%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic League), and a third from completing the city-state's [City-state%20%28Civ6%29%23City-state%20quests](quest), which makes it relatively easy to have 3 s at a city-state (and probably become its [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain)) if you meet it first. Note that the city-state bonus applies to Campus districts, so you must build some Campuses in order to take advantage of scientific city-states and the planning of Campus construction can be independent of city-state discovery.
Later, after the [University%20%28Civ6%29](University) becomes available in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), the production from Campus buildings becomes predominant. This is especially true starting in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) with [Rationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Rationalism), which potentially doubles the output of Campus buildings. In this case, one may as well think of the +2 from [Library%20%28Civ6%29](Library) as +4 and +4 from University as +8 . Together, we see that the +12 from specialty buildings starts to overtake adjacency bonus and city-state bonus. This puts emphasis on constructing Universities and enabling the Rationalism policy early. Both Rationalism and city-state bonuses depend on the number of Campuses. Therefore, going wide is a better strategy for than going tall (as with all other yields). Up until the midgame, cities that don't sport high adjacency bonuses for Campus districts should also start to construct Campuses unless you're receiving significant boosts from city-states and [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Scientists).
Great Scientist [Albert%20Einstein%20%28Civ6%29](Albert Einstein) increases the output of all Universities (or, in "Gathering Storm", all [Research%20Lab%20%28Civ6%29](Research Labs)) by 4. This is the most overpowered Great Scientist, followed by [Isaac%20Newton%20%28Civ6%29](Isaac Newton), who increases the output of all Universities by half (+2). Remember that the true bonus is potentially doubled with the Rationalism policy. Therefore, the bonuses of these two Great Scientists are massive. It is worth fighting for a lead, which induces a point lead. While a lead in points doesn't guarantee access to the Great Scientist(s) of choice, it greatly increases the chance of obtaining a better Great Scientist. Conversely, trailing in points greatly reduces the chance of obtaining a good Great Scientist, especially in [multiplayer](multiplayer) games. Having Albert Einstein greatly reduces the pressure of having many Campuses. This is where the surprise effect of RNG comes in to be fun.