# Canal (Civ6)

The Canal is a in "" that provides passage from a body of water to a [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) or another body of water. It requires [Steam%20Power%20%28Civ6%29](Steam Power) (or [Masonry%20%28Civ6%29](Masonry) for [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Mandate of Heaven Qin Shi Huang)).
The Canal must be built on flat land with a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) or [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) on one side, and either a City Center or another body of water on the other. A single canal passage may go either straight, or bend 60 degrees; three-way canals are not allowed.
Strategy.
Canals have long been seen as very valuable both in-game and in real life, but their first appearance in the "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" franchise as a district rather than an [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement) can make it hard for players to find a situation in which Canals are worth building. Even though it does not count towards a city's Population limit, Canals do not provide nor any other yields, and are also more expensive to construct than regular districts. The only very situational "yields" you can get out of Canals are s that pass through Canals receiving more .
Be sure to take advantage of the adjacency bonus that Canals provide to [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) whenever possible.
A secondary, often overlooked effect of building a Canal to/from a [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) is that it enables the city to construct ships if it wasn't able to do so already. Of course, for this to be possible, the City Center has to be within one tile of a seacoast, in which case constructing a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) provides greater benefits. The only case in which a Canal will be preferable is if you've reached the Population limit (from which Canals, not being specialty districts, are exempt).
Since a Canal's main usage is to create a smooth flow between land and sea within your empire, how useful it will be is heavily dependent on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) type. Canals will be the most useful on maps that have a balanced mix between land and sea, most notably Fractal and Shuffle maps since these often contain bodies of water isolated within lands, or long stretches of land that increase the time needed for naval units to sail from one body of water to another. Canals can easily be omitted on land-dominated maps (e.g., Pangaea, Continents, and Inland Sea) or water-dominated maps (e.g., Archipelago and Island Plates), on which either naval units don't matter much or bodies of water are readily connected.
Note that construction of Canals and [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams) can be sped up by Military Engineers, so remember to use them if you have to build these districts. Also, be warned that if there are multiple possible connection points to your Canal (city, Lake, Coast), you will not be able to choose which it will lead to.