# Canadian (Civ6)

The Canadian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". They are led by [Wilfrid%20Laurier%20%28Civ6%29](Wilfrid Laurier), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are white and red.
The Canadians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Four Faces of Peace, which prevents them from declaring or being the target of Surprise Wars and declaring war on [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). They also receive bonuses for every 100 they generate and every [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](Emergency) and Scored Competition they complete. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Mountie%20%28Civ6%29](Mountie), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Ice%20Hockey%20Rink%20%28Civ6%29](Ice Hockey Rink).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 1 towards [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) and [Tundra%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra (Hills)), tier 5 towards [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow) and [Snow%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Snow (Hills))"
Canada is a civilization that does not only survive, but thrive, in the Tundra no other civilizations can use. They want to extend the olive branch, and foster peace among the world's citizens, but warmongers will feel the anger of the True North during diplomatic [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](Emergencies).
The Last Best West.
After numerous buffs and tweaks, this ability, from being one of the most useless leader abilities in the game, has now become one of the best, since it allows Canada to settle and prosper in areas where most civilizations want to avoid.
"[Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) can be built on [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra), Farms and Camps on Tundra grant extra ".
This "bonus" when "" was first released was the absolute worst leader ability "Civilization VI" had to offer, since it did not always act as a bonus. For new players, it was entirely a trap to bait you into needlessly expending your resources and then punishing you for that. Tundra Farms used to be worthless tiles with 2 and 0.5 , a miserable trade for your valuable build charges.
After the latest buff in the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update), Tundra Farms now grant 4 each, twice what it used to be and even more fertile than a standard [Grassland%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland) Farm. With the on top, your Tundra cities can grow quickly and potentially much taller than any other civilizations can on this terrain, including [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia). Later in the game, with [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism), Tundra Farms in a triangle can grant 5 , and adjacent Farms on other terrains can be used to create the triangular formation. This amount of can even go higher with [Replaceable%20Parts%20%28Civ6%29](Replaceable Parts), where each Farm will gain 1 extra per adjacent Farm.
If you somehow are still worrying about your Tundra cities starving, Canadian Tundra Camps also gain an extra of 2 each. On Tundra tiles, Camps can be used to improve either (not guaranteed to exist, and since it is a luxury resource, will only appear on one continent) or (quite prevalent as a bonus resource on Tundra). A source of in Woods on a Hills tile is worth 1 and 3 ; when improved, such a Camp will grant 3 , 3 and 2 . If [Dance%20of%20the%20Aurora%20%28Civ6%29](Dance of the Aurora) [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) is gone, you can consider picking up [Goddess%20of%20the%20Hunt%20%28Civ6%29](Goddess of the Hunt) to further buff up your Camps. Considering how prevalent is on Tundra, prioritize it when looking for a settling spot, as it will provide an excellent source of growth and for your cities.
As for Wonders, the [Temple%20of%20Artemis%20%28Civ6%29](Temple of Artemis) can be very powerful for your capital. Remember that aside from the it grants (which you may likely lack due to Tundra being so resource-poor), it also grants +4 and +3 , helping its parent city grow even bigger on such a barren terrain.
"Lumber Mills and Mines on Tundra and Snow grant extra ".
With their boosted Mines, Canada can have a pretty nice head start on , which they can continue until [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mills) are unlocked later (you can remove these Lumber Mills later when [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) are available). A standard Mine on Snow or Tundra of Canada can yield 3 , compared to the standard 1 , and can still scale upward like normal at [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship) and [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization), while a Canadian Tundra Lumber Mill (Lumber Mills can never exist on Snow) can provide 4 (compared to the standard 2 ) on top of the provided by the Woods feature on that tile. Lumber Mills can also scale with technological research, but only with [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel) ([Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era)) and [Cybernetics%20%28Civ6%29](Cybernetics) ([Future%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Future Era)). These scaling points don't matter too much, since as Canada, your is always miles ahead of your , so you will most likely remove your Lumber Mills to make space for your National Parks long before you reach these technologies.
With these first two aspects of Wilfrid's ability, Canada finally feels like a Tundra civilization. Their cities on these terrains will have absolutely no problem growing and becoming productive, thanks to the boosted yields of Farms, Camps, Mines and Lumber Mills. This makes Builders a high priority for Canada, as they need Farm triangles and diamonds to grow new cities and Mines to make them productive. Mines are the immediate solution to a new Tundra city's issues, but Hills will not always be available. Thus, the answer lies in Lumber Mills and beelining the [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) civic. Conservation is doubly important for Canada, as not only does it allow Canada to create their own through Lumber Mills (and surrounding any [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) with them), but also allows them to create National Parks wherever they want in the often-featureless Tundra.
Unfortunately, unlike [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia), Canada has no protection against [Storm%20%28Civ6%29](Blizzards), which will probably ravage your cities more than a few times if you do commit to full Tundra cities. Try to keep some [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) ready in reserve to go around and fix damaged improvements. It also may trigger a prompt to start a Request Aid competition for yourself, which can sometimes be a good idea: it gives your competitors a chance to catch up to you in Diplomatic Victory, but if you are significantly ahead of anyone else in Diplomatic Victory or feel that there is more than enough time and future World Congresses to catch up, there's no downside to getting free that would have been used to fund another player's victory type.
"Discount on purchasing [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow) and Tundra tiles".
While it is nice to have land purchase discount, especially in the early game when you need to expand and improve tiles, this bonus, sadly, only applies to Snow and Tundra. Under almost no circumstances in the early game do you have a reason to purchase a Snow tile, because it has no [Resources%20%28Civ6%29](resources) other than and , which unlock after the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era). By this time, tile purchase discount is a nice touch but no longer as relevant. You may still purchase a few Tundra tiles if they contain a resource or [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) (which can be improved with a [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mill)), or sometimes when you need extra space to create a Farm triangle, but other than that, spending to acquire 1 tiles in the early game is rarely worth it. Once Mounties are unlocked, this ability can be useful in allowing you to settle cities for National Parks and rapidly expand their territory even with a weak economy.
"Faster Strategic Resource accumulation on Snow and Tundra tiles".
As cool as it sounds to be able to accumulate strategic resources faster, since you usually have no incentives to build [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) as Canada, your stockpile cap is often low, and because you do not want to mass build units for military conquests, accumulating resources faster often boils down to only one benefit: trade. Even that, trading strategic resources is not as a reliable source of income as luxury resources, as it also depends on your partner's own stock limit and availability of the resource to them, so every so often, your resources will just end up in a stockpile with little purpose. This ability can be more useful after you unlock [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization), when you discover to fuel your [Coal%20Power%20Plants%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plants). However, considering that Canada is a civilization with a diplomatic edge, discharging a lot of carbon into the atmosphere will result in penalty, so you will not feel the full usefulness of this aspect until you unlock [Oil%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Oil Power Plants), or, if you want to be even "greener", [Nuclear%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Power Plants). Sometimes, this comes in handy when you feel the need to go to war to eliminate an enemy who is closer to Victory than you or joining emergencies. Most late-game units require per-turn resource maintenance, double extraction rate means double the army size that has no combat penalty due to the lack of resource maintenance.
"Setting up for National Parks and a cultural victory".
Because Canada is reliant on National Parks, they will require a wide empire. In the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza), the [Ancestral%20Hall%20%28Civ6%29](Ancestral Hall) is the best first choice, as free Builders are invaluable. A newly settled Tundra city should try to have a few things as soon as possible: a Farm triangle, some way of getting (whether that be through Mines or Lumber Mills), and spots laid out for a Theatre Square, Ice Hockey Rink and National Park. Deer Camps are very helpful for cities lucky enough to have them, otherwise they can optionally build Entertainment Complexes and Commercial Hubs/Harbors after these are complete.
For Canada's [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon), [Dance%20of%20the%20Aurora%20%28Civ6%29](Dance of the Aurora) should be the prime choice if available; it not only provides for tourism, but also for early expansion if combined with the Work Ethic belief. If a religion is not on your agenda, (different from other cultural civilizations, Canada is not reliant on ) [Goddess%20of%20the%20Hunt%20%28Civ6%29](Goddess of the Hunt) is an excellent consistent choice as is the single most common resource in Tundra and makes Canada's Tundra Camps even stronger. As with all civilizations, [Religious%20Settlements%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Settlements) and [Divine%20Spark%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Spark) (if they are still available by the time your pantheon is unlocked, as Canada has no consistent way of generating on turn 1) are great generalist choices.
Once all the important [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) prerequisites are unlocked, you should go for [Colonialism%20%28Civ6%29](Colonialism) for [Ice%20Hockey%20Rink%20%28Civ6%29](Ice Hockey Rinks), then [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) for Mounties. These Civics are on the same branch of the Civic tree. Once Conservation is unlocked, you should start building Mounties, to establish National Parks, and Builders, to create Forests which increase tile Appeal and allow you to place National Parks in new locations. It is worthwhile to look at [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29%23Mechanics](how Appeal is calculated). It is also useful to consider where you may want parks later when settling and placing districts—regions with lots of Mountains and Forests, for example, will require much less work than thick [Rainforests%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests). Without using Builders to place Forests and Ice Hockey Rinks to increase Appeal, you will not be able to place nearly as many National Parks, and those you do place will be slightly weaker, so be sure to use them so you can take full advantage of this strong boost. This National Park focus also goes well with the Wish You Were Here Golden Age [Dedication%20%28Civ6%29](Dedication). Placing lots of National Parks, at +3 Era Score each, helps ensure a Golden Age, and this Dedication doubles your main source of for a massive boost.
Assuming you are going on the cultural path, consider trying to get the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower)—while its technology, [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel), is on the "awkward" side of the tech tree for cultural civilizations, it is extremely powerful for Canada. Not only does it give +8 per National Park, but it also enables you to build National Parks in locations you could not before. There are no other wonders that become uniquely better because of Canada's specific abilities and starting bias, although if you are going for a Scientific Victory, you will probably be more likely than anyone else in the game to build the [Amundsen-Scott%20Research%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Amundsen-Scott Research Station). Therefore, build other Wonders when you see good opportunities to, but remember that aside from Eiffel Tower, none of them truly affect a Cultural win condition.
Four Faces of Peace.
"Immunity from [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Surprise Wars) and cannot declare Surprise Wars".
The fact that you are immune to Surprise Wars has next to no effect on [multiplayer](multiplayer) games, but can guarantee your safety to build up your core territory in single player (Builders). This also means that Canada completely negates [Cyrus%20%28Civ6%29](Cyrus') leader ability. However, this boon does come with downsides as you cannot quickly steal unprotected Settlers, or take out an easy city-state target. There is a way to circumvent the prohibition to declaring wars without Denouncing the opponent, and that is by using Joint Wars! All you need is a third party sufficiently disgruntled with your target to have had already Denounced them. If used smartly, this will nullify the prohibition.
"Earn bonus " "from and Emergencies".
You also gain 1% of your as , which is rather late and trivial. Accumulating at least 100 can only be achieved once the Industrial Era is reached, and Canada has no bonuses towards this prior to the Industrial Era. It is worthwhile to check the [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Park) page to understand how much Tourism each Park can theoretically generate, as National Parks are Canada's main method of generating from Tourism. This becomes strong very late in the game, often doubling (or more) your per turn, but unfortunately, this is not a huge boost at this point. Favor from Emergencies is generally stronger, so try your best to use it. Spend your generously whenever an Emergency comes up, like [Aid%20Request%20%28Civ6%29](Aid Request), or civilization and city-state liberation emergencies. Focus on Aid Requests; this is your main gold mine of because it is guaranteed to happen every game (especially on hyperreal climate setting), it is easy to satisfy the participation rule and it is the easiest one for you to win. Canada is also much safer than other civilizations in pursuing Aid Requests, as they cannot be surprise warred. In all other emergencies, you either need a large standing army, or a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion), or the location of the city that needs to be liberated has to be favorable to you, none of which you will want to go out of your way for.
Ice Hockey Rink.
As of the final patch of the game, the Ice Hockey Rink, once a nigh-useless unique improvement, becomes integral to Canada's cultural prowess and ability to thrive in Tundra. Prior to the buffs, the Ice Hockey Rink forced Canada players to settle useless land for the sole benefit of placing this unique improvement. As already explained, Canada's Tundra bonuses are no longer something to scoff at, and as such, placing this unique improvement is now much less of a chore than it is the cherry on top of Canada's bonuses.
Tundra is a very consistent and common type of terrain, unlike Plains and Grassland, which can often randomly overlap or end abruptly, which makes placing the Ice Hockey Rink and getting the maximum +6 from surrounding Tundra and Snow tiles incredibly easy. As each city may only place one Ice Hockey Rink, an ideal setup is to place an [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) within the range of 3 cities, as you will be building a [Stadium%20%28Civ6%29](Stadium) later to raise the adjacency to +10 , place your Ice Hockey Rinks around the Entertainment Complex, but not adjacent to one another, and those cities' [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) in the other spaces to further raise your [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism). 
It should be expected that you will not have the perfect setup every time, and as such, Ice Hockey Rinks also have another, less obvious bonus: they provide 2 [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) to adjacent tiles. Strategically place these in locations adjacent where you plan to place National Parks, and then once you have [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation), you have the freedom of using your Builders to place more Woods and raise your Appeal even further everywhere, and the [Mountie%20%28Civ6%29](Mountie) to realize those parks.
Mountie.
This unit is not usable in conquest, only to defend. (The real life Mountie is a police unit, after all.) Remember to keep this fact in mind when prioritizing what [Promotions%20%28Civ6%29%23Light%20Cavalry%20Units](promotions) to give such units. Compared to a standard [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry), it is available later and more expensive; even then, whether or not it will do a good job on defense is not reliable until later, as your enemies can try to avoid attacking cities with [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks).
However, the Mountie is an incredible unit that allows Canada to establish many National Parks without needing a good income. After the huge cost reduction introduced in the April 2021 Update, the Mountie becomes the much more cost efficient version of the Naturalist, even without taking into consideration the fact that it can be built with instead of only purchasable with , and does not go away after using all of its build charges. Every National Park established by the Naturalist costs 600 , which is equivalent to 300 . Meanwhile, a Mountie has 2 build charges and costs only 290 , which means every National Park established by a Mountie receives a 50% discount in cost compared to the Naturalist's National Parks. It is still a good idea to slot in [Lightning%20Warfare%20%28Civ6%29](Lightning Warfare) (which is hidden at [Ideology%20%28Civ6%29](Ideology)) to aid with its , as the Mountie is a standalone unit that cannot be upgraded into. Even if you do have a strong economy, you can use the thousands of you will save to buy Rock Bands, boosting your late game on top of your National Parks.
Once all the important [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) prerequisites are unlocked, you should go for [Colonialism%20%28Civ6%29](Colonialism) for [Ice%20Hockey%20Rink%20%28Civ6%29](Ice Hockey Rinks), then [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) for Mounties. These Civics are on the same branch of the Civic tree. Once Conservation is unlocked, you should start building Mounties, to establish National Parks, and Builders, to create Woods which increase tile Appeal and allow you to place National Parks in new locations. It is worthwhile to look at [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29%23Mechanics](how Appeal is calculated). It is also useful to consider where you may want parks later when settling and placing districts—regions with lots of Mountains and Woods, for example, will require much less work than thick [Rainforests%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests). Without using Builders to place Woods and Ice Hockey Rinks to increase Appeal, you will not be able to place nearly as many National Parks, and those you do place will be slightly weaker, so be sure to use them so you can take full advantage of this strong boost. For this reason, cards like [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom) and [Public%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Public Works) are must-haves for much of the game. This National Park focus also goes well with the Wish You Were Here Golden Age [Dedication%20%28Civ6%29](Dedication). Placing lots of National Parks, at +3 Era Score each, helps ensure a Golden Age, and this Dedication doubles your main source of for a massive boost.
As mentioned earlier, the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower) is extremely powerful for Canada. Not only does it give +8 per National Park, it will enable you to build National Parks in locations you could not before. The Eiffel Tower should be prioritized over Mounties, as Mounties cannot be upgraded into or made obsolete by [Synthetic%20Materials%20%28Civ6%29](Synthetic Materials), which would usually make Cavalry obsolete in favor of [Helicopter%20%28Civ6%29](Helicopters), giving Canada all the time in the world to go after the top half of the tech tree (specifically the 25% empire-wide boost to at [Computers%20%28Civ6%29](Computers)).
Victory Types.
Canada's main path of Victory will be Cultural through National Parks as you can effectively build better Naturalists with or instead of , so as long as you have the spots for new National Parks (or are willing to create them), and are not limited by resource to establish it, unlike other civs. Diplomatic Victory is also viable, although Canada's main method of getting , , is likely to win you a Culture Victory first if it's high enough to be useful. In regards to National Parks, try to be active with your gameplay by planning your National Park locations and planting Woods after Conservation instead of relying on map generation to align perfectly for you.
You can also go for an unorthodox victory like Domination (which makes faster resource accumulation actually useful and completing liberation emergencies more plausible). If you wish to try for a Science Victory, try to participate &amp; make at least a strong showing in the [Competitions%20%28Civ6%29](competitions) that give a boost directly or indirectly to your science efforts, in particular the [World%27s%20Fair%20%28Civ6%29](World's Fair), the [Nobel%20Prize%20in%20Physics%20%28Civ6%29](Nobel Prize in Physics), and the [International%20Space%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](International Space Station).
Counter Strategy.
Canada is a late game focused civilization that has no weapon to defend themselves from aggressive neighbors. In terms of gameplay, they are like [American%20%28Civ6%29](America), but with weaker early game, since they have no real defensive capabilities. Picking on Canada in the early game is very easy, although you cannot declare a Surprise War on them, the minimum number of turns (5) between denouncing and war declaration is barely enough for them to put together an army, and Canada is often under a false impression that they are unaffected by war, so it is generally easier to catch them off guard. Also, if you can see another civilization who is already at war with Canada, you can gain somewhat the element of surprise by joining in without denouncing them first, thus bypassing their immunity. Do not denounce them too early if you have no intention to attack them immediately 5 turns after, since it will put them in a defensive mode. The fact that Canada cannot declare Surprise War either means you are safe next to them unless there is a denunciation. Also, you can safely invest your into [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-states) next to Canada, since unless they are at war with the Suzerain, they can never conquest these City-states.
In terms of their extra , competing in Competitions and Emergencies is their bread and butter, as they earn far more from these than from , so this should be your priority target. Voting down so that the Competitions and Emergencies cannot go ahead is one way, but sometimes this is tough since other civilizations may want these to proceed, but there are multiple ways you can mess with Canada so they cannot win. Declaring war and harassing them with military units is one way, since they will have to put out units of their own to respond, instead of running Competition projects. If you want to avoid war, or are too far from Canada to do anything, you can help the emergency target (in any emergencies that are not Aid Requests), try to outperform Canada yourself, or help a close rival of Canada in those Competitions.