# Caravel (Civ5)

Game Info.
Fast [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance Era) naval melee unit. Upgrades from the [Trireme%20%28Civ5%29](Trireme).
Strategy.
In the early Renaissance Era naval and orientation technology finally develop enough to allow vessels to enter open [Ocean%20%28Civ5%29](ocean). The Caravel is the first naval unit in the game capable of doing that. Depending entirely on sails, this vessel is much more stable and compact and is ideal for exploration, thanks to its larger sight radius (which, unfortunately, doesn't carry over when the unit is upgraded). The Caravel ushers in the era of geographic discoveries, allowing you to finally explore and make contact with the rest of the world.
Caravels are primarily meant for exploration, not battle; they're armed with short-range cannons which make them a melee naval unit, slightly more powerful than a [Galleass%20%28Civ5%29](Galleass). Their maneuverability allows them to retreat before enemies attacking in melee.
The importance of exploration in "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" can't be stressed enough: it allows you to discover new lands to settle, it gives you tons of new trade opportunities as you encounter other [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations) and [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states), and it finally gives you a complete picture of the state of the world. With its large sight radius, its relatively high strength, and a special [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion) that allows it to evade enemy melee attacks, the Caravel is perfectly suited for exploring and revealing as much of the [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) as possible while staying out of danger.
Finally, you can use Caravels to attack and take [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) (although there is another Renaissance Era unit - the [Privateer%20%28Civ5%29](Privateer) - that is better suited for those purposes). Still, remember that its combat strength is usually not enough for major battles, especially against later Renaissance Era ships.