# Caravel (Civ6)

The Caravel is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20melee](naval melee unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It upgrades from the (or its replacements).
Strategy.
Naval melee units, unless under [Harald%20Hardrada%20%28Civ6%29](Harald Hardrada), are the class of units with the most limited scope of use. On land, units with melee attacks are generally "blocker" units: unless they are unique units who are made for offense, they are most often used to claim strategic tiles or fortify to form a frontline shielding ranged and siege units, and only attack to capture cities. In the open sea, the role of such units significantly diminishes. Since every water tile is basically a flat land tile and naval units are a lot more mobile with their high , it is very easy to circumvent naval zone of control to hit ranged naval units at the back. Furthermore, since cities in "Civilization VI" can always settle inland yet still enjoy the benefits of the coast, it is more reliable to bring a land melee unit together with your naval ranged units on a naval conquest. But that's not all, the way the ability to enter [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Ocean) tiles is granted in "Civilization VI" makes the Caravel even less useful. Back in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", obsolete ships cannot enter Ocean tiles even if appropriate technologies are researched, but in "Civilization VI", all ships can enter deep oceans after [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography), so unless you are very generous with , your [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galley) can still shoulder the responsibility of exploration in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era). For those reasons, Caravels are often relegated to a very defensive and reactionary role if you are facing a naval invasion, and only situationally can be brought along to deal the last hit to coastal cities in a naval conquest if the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) is either Archipelago or Island Plates.