# Carolean (Civ6)

The Carolean is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Anti-cavalry](anti-cavalry unit) of the [Swedish%20%28Civ6%29](Swedish) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Pike%20and%20Shot%20%28Civ6%29](Pike and Shot).
Strategy.
The Carolean can be equally strong whether on defense or when attacking (though nowhere near as good as [Carolean%20%28Civ5%29](its "Civilization V" counterpart)). It is a good idea to prepare for the use of this unit early by training [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearmen) or [Pikeman%20%28Civ6%29](Pikemen), preferably at an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) containing a [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks), and leveling them up to earn the [Redeploy%20%28Civ6%29](Redeploy) , which will increase both their strength and mobility when they upgrade to Caroleans. Other abilities which increase the rate of units should also be put to use, such as the [Logistics%20%28Civ6%29](Logistics) [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) (available with [Mercantilism%20%28Civ6%29](Mercantilism)) and [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals).
The Carolean is, however, far from invincible, especially if overextended. [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketmen) are entirely capable of standing up against them due to their bonus against anti-cavalry units. To alleviate this, Caroleans should be backed up by some kind of ranged units, for which they can also provide protection from enemy cavalry. Swedish players should also pay attention to terrain on the battlefield and how many points the Carolean can retain before making the move to attack and keep in mind that pillaging as the Carolean can deprive them of nearly a sixth of their full Combat Strength due to expending points. This is necessary due to the fact that by default it doesn't quite have the mobility of its previous incarnation; for instance it doesn't have the [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](old March promotion), generally forcing it to either use points to pillage or else forgo movement altogether and hold in place if it hasn't just leveled up in combat, in order to heal.
Keep in mind that [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](Roads) benefit the Caroleans a lot since points left always get rounded up when calculating for Combat Strength bonuses - having just 0.25 points left can still grant your unit a +3 Combat Strength bonus like normal. Also, the extra Combat Strength does apply on defense, if the unit didn't attack last turn and didn't use all of its (if it attacked the turn before, its would drop to 0, resulting in no extra Combat Strength on defense).