# Carthaginian (Civ5)

The Carthaginian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
One of the most versatile civilizations, the Carthaginians are undoubtedly one of the best seafaring civilizations. If you are playing in "Gods &amp; Kings", the free [Harbor%20%28Civ5%29](Harbor) for each [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) is a great advantage in the early game, allowing additional from sea [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resources) immediately, and disposing of the need to build [Road%20%28Civ5%29](roads) to connect your cities for the formation of city connections (of course, it's advisable you do this eventually)! Their mastery of the early seas is also assured with the [Quinquereme%20%28Civ5%29](Quinquereme), arguably the strongest early game sea vessel.
In "", however, having a free Harbor in every city is much less useful for military purposes, since Harbors no longer provide . Instead, they now work with the new [Trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](Trade Route) gameplay feature, allowing the Carthaginians to establish much more profitable sea trade routes early on. Use this to your advantage by filling all trading slots with sea trade routes.
The Carthaginians are also specialists at earning [Great%20General%20%28Civ5%29](Great Generals) thanks to their other [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique unit), the [African%20Forest%20Elephant%20%28Civ5%29](African Forest Elephant). And of course, they're the only civilization able to cross [Mountain%20%28Civ5%29](mountains) in the early game, which is possible after their first Great General appears. Others have to build aircraft to be able to cross the mountains, which is possible only in the late game. Therefore, the Carthaginians can use this early game advantage to conquer their enemies behind the mountains. Be wary, though, because the [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) will take quite a large amount of damage (50 [HP](HP)) if they end a turn on a mountain.