# Cartography (Civ6)

Cartography is a [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building 2 [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbors).
In "", it requires [Buttress%20%28Civ6%29](Buttress).
Strategy.
The steady development of seafaring technology eventually allows creation of ships able to withstand the storms of the open seas. But it takes more than a hardy ship for a man to venture into the unknown, and the development of Cartography provides this last push which is needed. With a sextant in hand and a map on which to define its correct position, a sailor on a sturdy ship may finally go out in the ocean.
And so begins the Age of Exploration. The [Caravel%20%28Civ6%29](Caravel), the first ship of next-generation vessels, is developed; and even older vessels are updated so that they can brave the open seas. Even sea [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) become more productive thanks to these new developments!
This is one of the most important technologies in the middle game! It not only unlocks the possibility to explore the rest of the world (because your ships can now enter [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Ocean) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles)), but also naval melee units that are substantially stronger than earlier ships. Furthermore, it improves the yield of [Fishing%20Boats%20%28Civ6%29](Fishing Boats), as the fishermen can now chart the most productive portions of the water to increase the efficiency and profitability of their catch. Any [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) which isn't landlocked should consider rushing this tech, which is actually quite easy: you need [Sailing%20%28Civ6%29](Sailing), then [Shipbuilding%20%28Civ6%29](Shipbuilding), then Buttress (in "Gathering Storm"), then Cartography.
Of course, this line of research will yield few economic or military benefits, so even a seafaring civilization will need to get some other have-tos before going for Cartography. And, it goes without saying that a landlocked civ won't need this for another [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) (you need the next tech in the tree, [Square%20Rigging%20%28Civ6%29](Square Rigging), to unlock the all-important [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization)).