# Cathedral (Civ6)

The Cathedral is an advanced [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religious) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and requires a (or one of its replacements). It may also be purchased with .
Strategy.
The Cathedral is most useful for a player going for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory). It can augment a Holy Site's output with its slot for a Great Work of Religious Art. However, the restriction on Great Work type makes this highly dependent on which [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Artists) can be obtained. Only 6 Great Artists producing only 12 Great Works of Religious Art are available, and even these are better spent on [Theming%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](theming) some [Art%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Art Museums). (Read more [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here).) Overall, this is a pretty bad and unreliable choice for your Worship belief, even for a cultural [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization), since you cannot control if you will have Great Works of Religious Art or not. If you insist on using your Holy Site to produce , it's usually better focus on generating some [Relics%20%28Civ6%29](Relics) to place in your [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple) instead and pick a better worship building. Relics are much more powerful in the long term, especially if you have special benefits from them (e.g., [Jadwiga%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga), a religion with Reliquaries) or can acquire them more easily.
However, there is one civilization that has great synergy with the Cathedral: [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia). Their [Lavra%20%28Civ6%29](Lavras) often result in them having more Great Artists than they have space for. When playing as Russia, Cathedrals are a solid choice; otherwise, choose a different worship building.
Starting in the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), Great Artists will no longer produce Religious Art, so if your strategy involves Cathedrals it will be most beneficial to recruit Great Artists during the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance) and [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Eras).