# Celestial Navigation (Civ6)

Celestial Navigation is a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) [Technologies%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building [Fishing%20Boats%20%28Civ6%29](Fishing Boats) on any 2 sea resources. 
Strategy.
The ability to calculate one's position in the world by looking at the stars provides the backbone of maritime navigation (you know, because there are no other landmarks at sea but the stars and the sun). And so, mankind grows enough backbone to start using the sea not only for military, but also for economic purposes. A whole new , the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor), becomes necessary to provide the material base, along with its first [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building), the [Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Lighthouse).
This tech is very important for seafaring civs, providing a slew of utilities (including a Wonder) to that end! And, being a leaf tech, it is absolutely useless to landlocked civs! So, your researching it should depend on how much, and when you want to use the sea: if your starting location is on the coast and you have many sea-based resources, you could as well make it the third or fourth tech you research (after Sailing, and couple other 'obligatory' Ancient Era techs). It is also important if you want to rush the [Great%20Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Great Lighthouse) (which requires a Harbor and a Lighthouse building in it, making an early start with these very important). In all other cases you can forego researching Celestial Navigation until you find use for the sea, either for movement, exploration, or for trade. 