# Chaos Theory (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Chaos Theory is a radical new approach to mathematics and the way the universe works. Scientists who master Chaos Theory and its applications can make that which seems impossible possible. Able to defy gravity, the unit is such an application.
Great Library entry.
The dynamic nature of the universe has led to a great deal of scientific research dedicated to analyzing change. Until the late 20th century, scientists believed that random external influences were the source of system dynamics behaving unpredictably. If they could eliminate random influences, they, in theory, could predict the behavior of deterministic systems indefinitely. It is known that, even in the absence of external influences, systems can exhibit long-term unpredictability. These systems are called chaotic. What's more, chaotic systems appear to the casual observer to exhibit random, irregular behavior, when in fact they are mathematically deterministic, following precise laws.
Chaos Theory attempts to explain the complex and unpredictable dynamics of chaotic systems that are sensitive to such initial conditions as velocity and position. Two chaotic systems with identical dynamics but different initial conditions can quickly exhibit markedly different behavior. The French mathematician Henri Poincaré stated what became a central tenet of chaos theory: "It may happen that small differences in the initial conditions produce very great ones in the final phenomena. A small error in the former will produce an enormous error in the latter. Prediction becomes impossible..." Chaos is inherent in systems as varied as electric circuits, lasers, heart rhythms, fluids, chemical reactions and animal populations. Some chaos theorists suspect that complex economic systems, such as stock exchanges, may be chaotic. 
As the field of chaos evolved rapidly from a theoretical to an applied science, scientists were able to harness its power to create applications that defied previously held theories about the limitations of physical space. With the ability to model chaotic systems, scientist could predict the unpredictable leading to advances in a range of fields, including anti-gravity systems, global weather prediction and plasma physics.