# Chemamull (Civ6)

The Chemamull is a unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) of the [Mapuche%20%28Civ6%29](Mapuche) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It must be built on a [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) with an [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) of Breathtaking (4 or more).
Strategy.
The Chemamull is a great improvement if you focus on a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory), as it provides both and (with [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight)) while giving a small boost to . It has very high potential for and if you can fit many in the same city, but at the same time, its restrictive placement requirement means it needs more planning than any other improvements in the game.
In the early eras, whether or not you can put down Chemamull after unlocking it is almost entirely up to chance. Chemamull can only be built on a tile with Breathtaking (4+) Appeal, and all you can do at this point to increase the Appeal rating of a tile is to build [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), or [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes), which is frankly not enough and maybe not the types of s you want to put down everywhere. Since you have to rely on your surroundings to give you what you want, settling spots with often high Appeal are coastal, next to a lot of [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) and [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), and especially, next to natural wonders. Turn on the Appeal [Lens%20%28Civ6%29](lens) to mark locations where Chemamull can be built, and refrain from putting Appeal-reducing improvements and s nearby, such as [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones), [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) and [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries). Also, try to clear features that lower the Appeal of adjacent tiles, which are [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests) and [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marshes). 
Later on, you can influence the Appeal rating of a tile by promoting [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang) to the [Parks%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Parks and Recreation) title, allowing you to build [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](City Parks). City Parks grant 2 Appeal to adjacent tiles, so a tile next to 2 City Parks and not adjacent to any Appeal-lowering factor is guaranteed to be Breathtaking. Once you are done with building City Parks in a city, move Liang to the next one. City Parks will lose some when Liang is no longer in the city but keep their Appeal-boosting properties in full. Also, when [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) is unlocked, you can plant Woods. Second-growth Woods grant 1 Appeal to adjacent tiles (except for the tile it is on). When combined with [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) and her [Forestry%20Management%20%28Civ6%29](Forestry Management) title ("" only), each Woods tile grant 2 Appeal to adjacent tiles. Different from City Parks, Woods can be planted next to one another. Nevertheless, keep in mind that Chemamull cannot go on top of Woods, so it is better to treat Woods in this case like an improvement: keep them 1 tile apart from one another so one or two Chemamull can snug in between. 
Similar to all other Appeal-focused civilization, the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower) will greatly improve the utility of the Chemamull, and increases the number of tiles that Chemamull can be built on, as it gives 2 Appeal to all tiles in your empire. The [Golden%20Gate%20Bridge%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Gate Bridge) gives 4 Appeal to the city it is in, but to find a place to build this wonder will never stop being a conundrum. Two s that can improve Appeal of tiles inside a city are [Charles%20Correa%20%28Civ6%29](Charles Correa) and [Alvar%20Aalto%20%28Civ6%29](Alvar Aalto). Correa ([Information%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Information Era)) increases Appeal of all tiles in a city by 2, while Aalto ([Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era)) increases Appeal by 1, each has 1 charge. The [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus) effectively doubles the uses of both of these s, so the Mapuche should seriously consider this wonder. The increased Appeal of the two s stack with each other and stack with themselves if the Mausoleum is available and the player activates both charges of the same in the same city.
The yield of this improvement is dynamic: it will change if the Appeal of the tile changes. That means if later the Appeal rating of the tile drops below Breathtaking, the improvement will not be removed, but it will yield less . The of the Chemamull is always equal to 75% of the Appeal rating, rounded down, and it is possible for a Chemamull to yield 0 if the tile's Appeal drops too low. However, it can also be automatically adjusted in your favor if the tile's Appeal is raised after the improvement is put down.