# Chichen Itza (CTP2)

The Chichen Itza is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)" that was built by the [Mayan%20%28CTP2%29](Mayans) in real life. It requires [Jurisprudence%20%28CTP2%29](Jurisprudence) and this wonder reduces crime in a civilization by 30%. The Chichen Itza is a place where the Mayans would perform human sacrifice so this is the reason why crime gets reduced. People would see the ritual sacrifice and then become discouraged about doing a crime.
Gameplay.
The Chichén Itzá is an altar in which human sacrifices are offered to the gods in exchange for divine favor. Since criminals and other undesirables are often the first to be sacrificed, the mere presence of Chichén Itzá in an empire serves as a deterrent, reducing across the empire.
Great Library entry.
Chichén was a city founded around the 6th century AD, most likely by Maya peoples native to the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico. It consisted of many structures, including the Akabtzib (House of the Dark Writing), the Chichanchob (Red House), the Iglesia (Church), the Casa de las Monjas (Nunnery), and the observatory El Caracol (The Snail). The Maya abandoned Chichén in 670, but archaeological evidence suggests that, at sometime between the 10th and 12th centuries AD, after the collapse of the Maya cities of the southern lowlands, the Itzá, a tribe of Maya speakers influenced by the Toltec of Central Mexico, resettled Chichén.
The Itzá constructed a few buildings in addition to those that first existed in Chichén, most notably El Castillo (The Great Pyramid). A magnificent structure, it rose 80 feet above the Main Plaza of the city. Each of its four sides had 91 stairs and faced a cardinal direction. When added to the step at the top of the pyramid, the steps totaled 365 - the number of days in a solar year. It was topped with a carving of a plumed serpent symbolic of Quetzalcóatl (known to the Maya as Kukulcán), one of the major deities of ancient Meso-American culture. During the equinoxes in the spring and summer, the setting sun cast a shadow giving the appearance of a snake undulating down the stairways. 
In the 19th century, long after the eradication of Maya culture at the hands of Spanish conquerors, Chichén Itzá became a major archaeological site. Excavations revealed much, including an earlier structure within El Castillo that contained a red jaguar throne studded with jade.
Legends told of the Cult of the Cenote and their practice of human sacrifice to the rain god. They threw victims into the city's major cenote (a natural well at the northernmost part of the pyramid), along with gold and jade ornaments and other valuables. In 1904, Edward Herbert Thompson, an American who purchased the Chichén Itzá site, dredged the cenote. The skeletons and objects of sacrifice confirmed what was considered only a legend.