# Chichen Itza (Civ6)

Chichen Itza is a in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on .
Strategy.
Chichen Itza's bonuses to and can turn a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) in the middle of a rainforest into a tropical paradise. It is particularly valuable to the [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazilians) and the [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese) (and potentially the [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnamese)), who have increased incentive to settle in or near these regions. With Chichen Itza and some well-placed s to increase the [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) of surrounding [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), the Brazilians may be able to establish a [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Park) in the middle of a rainforest - something other [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) will almost never be able to do!
In "", Chichen Itza can be used in conjunction with an [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) with a [Zoo%20%28Civ6%29](Zoo) (which gives +1 to Rainforest tiles) and [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna's) [Forestry%20Management%20%28Civ6%29](Forestry Management) title (which gives +2 to tiles with unimproved features) for a total of 2 , 2-3 , 2 , 1 , and 2 from each Rainforest tile in the city. Alternatively, you can build [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mills) on the Rainforest tiles upon discovering [Mercantilism%20%28Civ6%29](Mercantilism), which provides extra at the expense of the from Forestry Management.
The main challenge with Chichen Itza is finding a piece of land that's filled with Rainforests, and then settling in their midst and preserving as many of them as possible (i.e., not cutting them down to build s or wonders) to maximize the and bonuses it grants. Remember that Rainforests, unlike [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), cannot be replanted - once removed, they're gone forever.