# Chinese (Civ6)

The Chinese people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin Shi Huang), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark green and white; [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29/Unifier](Unifier Qin Shi Huang), under whom their default colors are reversed; [Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Kublai Khan), under whom their default colors are light yellow and dark red; [Yongle%20%28Civ6%29](Yongle), under whom their default colors are yellow and dark blue; and [Wu%20Zetian%20%28Civ6%29](Wu Zetian), under whom their default colors are red and yellow.
The Chinese [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Dynastic Cycle, which allows s and s to provide an extra 10% of the cost of [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) and [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics), and grants them a free and whenever they complete a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tiger), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "None"
China is a strong, versatile civilization, yet quite complex to master in terms of its gameplay. Some of their leader options set up arguably the strongest timing pushes in the game, from rush-building [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) and [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) to gigantic surges of and from fast-growing cities, and these will set the pace for the rest of the game in terms of which direction China wants to go and how fast it gets there.
Dynastic Cycle.
The Chinese civilization ability increases the and bonuses from s and s (respectively) by 10%, allowing them to discover key [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) and [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics) more quickly once they trigger these. (Note that the cost of technologies and civics from a later era than the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](World Era) is increased and those from an earlier era are decreased, but the boosts provide a flat amount of or equal to 40% of their unadjusted cost in or 50% before this, and this is what Dynastic Cycle adds 10% to.)
The key is to decide which [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory) condition to pursue early on, and then beeline techs and civics that will unlock [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units), [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards), and wonders which will help achieve it. This ability will also help the Chinese avoid falling too far behind in their civic development if they choose to focus on technological development, or vice versa. It proves particularly strong in the late game (when both technologies and civics are far more expensive), when using [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies) to perform [Espionage%20%28Civ6%29%23Espionage%20Missions](Steal Tech Boost missions) (especially in [single-player](single-player) games on higher [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty levels), during which the [AI](AI) will eclipse human players' output throughout most of the game), and when pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) (since capturing a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) from a civilization that is ahead in technological or civic progress potentially awards a or ).
The other effect of this ability, which grants the Chinese a free and from the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) of each wonder they construct, encourages them to build wonders as soon as they unlock them. This maximizes the number of boosts they receive, and comes in especially handy for those boosts whose requirements are otherwise hard to meet.
The First Emperor (Mandate of Heaven Qin Shi Huang).
Arguably the most powerful leader ability in the game, its inherent complexity allows for a lot of game-breaking situations where the outcome of the game can be easily decided within the first two eras if done properly. While others will struggle to build early game Wonders due to their enormous opportunity costs, China will prosper in simultaneously erecting a large number of Wonders, setting the stage for future eras to come.
"Extra Builder build charges".
Very straightforward, under Qin, each Chinese Builder will have 4 build charges, raised to 5 if they are trained in a city with [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang), making them extra cost effective. City planning and development with China, therefore, will always be a step ahead of other civilizations, where China will end up with more flexibility on how to use their Builders, ranging from building improvements, chopping features and, of course, rushing wonders.
Considering how powerful the wonder rushing ability is, and how crucial the first two eras are to China, Liang is always the recommended opening Governor.
"Builders can expend a build charge to complete 15% of a Wonder cost".
This is undoubtedly the signature ability of Qin Shi Huang that elevates China as a dominant and flexible civilization. Every other aspect of China is quite underwhelming, but this one alone is more than enough to make up for it, if you can pull it off properly. Under Qin, China can use its [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders') charges to expedite the construction of wonders from the Ancient and Classical Eras. Each charge so expended provides 15% of the wonder's cost, so a Builder with 6 charges will be able to cover 90% of the needed for a wonder in 6 turns. 
At first, this may sound similar to the Wonder-constructing bonus of [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) or [French%20%28Civ6%29](France), but this ability is decidedly the most powerful one by far. The best part about this ability is that its efficacy is totally independent from the city that hosts the Wonder, and that effect is magnified so much more in the early game. 15% or 20% extra towards Wonders isn't that meaningful if the city itself has very low , which is most likely the case in the first two eras. Being able to complete a fraction of the Wonders' cost by expending Builder charges mean you can simultaneously construct multiple Wonders, as long as you have enough Builders to boost them all, regardless of how productive the cities are. A good trick to keep in mind is that when using Builders to build improvements, you can leave them at 1 charge left. Multiple Builders with 1 charge left make it possible to use multiple Builders' charges to expedite the same Wonder in the same turn.
Another sequence of events that you should remember when playing as China to maximize efficiency:
Remember that in the first two era, your output will contribute minimally to the progress of building Wonders. By switching production back and forth, you guarantee your Wonders will be built in time without setting other priorities back, including churning out more Builders, building s, or expansion. This method of switching production even allows you to build multiple Wonders at once in the same city, by having multiple Builders ready in position once you switch production to the Wonders they are standing on.
You can also go beyond the 15% Wonder cost per charge by stacking other percentage-based Wonder boosts:
The first 3 of 5 in the list above are something you can get (or attempt to get) every game, raising the value of each Builder charge to 21% Wonder cost. A standard Chinese builder trained in a city with Liang will come with 5 charges, meaning each one of them will complete any Wonder by itself.
"List of Ancient and Classical Era Wonders".
This section is dedicated to discussing the eligible Wonders, including how much of a priority certain Wonders are, and in which situation which Wonders should be built. This section is written under the assumption that resources, time and opportunities are limited, by the virtue of picking a Wonder you will have to de-prioritize another, which is the case in most of your games. If you are playing on a low difficulty level, or have a good start that can guarantee more Wonders than normal, there is no stopping you from attempting for Wonders that are classified here as "situational" or "not a high priority." China is most likely going for a Cultural Victory, so all of these Wonders, good or bad, will be good sources of late game . Note that [Machu%20Picchu%20%28Civ6%29](Machu Picchu) will not be discussed here, since it is ineligible to be rushed.
Researching [Masonry%20%28Civ6%29](Masonry) and building the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids) should always be at the top of China's agenda, as this will help optimize the effectiveness of their Builders. [Ilkum%20%28Civ6%29](Ilkum), [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom), and [Public%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Public Works) should be slotted as soon as they are unlocked - the latter two, in conjunction with Qin Shi Huang's leader ability and the Pyramids, will give Chinese Builders an unparalleled 7 build charges. In "", their Builders can have up to 8 charges if trained in a city to which [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang) has been assigned as a [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor), and these can be put to particularly good use in pursuit of a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory) by building the [Royal%20Society%20%28Civ6%29](Royal Society) and sending Builders to every city that has a [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceport). Each fully-charged Builder China expends will provide 16% of the needed for the requisite [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects), allowing them to reach [Mars](Mars) or an exoplanet in record time.
When selecting [Government%20%28Civ6%29](governments), [Autocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Autocracy) plays well to a wonder-focused approach in the early game (as outlined above), and [Communism%20%28Civ6%29](Communism) (or, in "", [Synthetic%20Technocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Synthetic Technocracy)) will be very helpful if China is aiming for a Science Victory. [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religion) does not necessarily have to be part of the Chinese strategy, but if it is, they benefit from choosing beliefs that provide additional and either or (depending on what their victory of choice is). 
"Early Canal construction".
In "Gathering Storm", The First Emperor has the added benefit of allowing Qin Shi Huang's China to build [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals) after researching Masonry. Apart from offering an even better incentive to beeline Masonry, however, its usefulness is limited. Canals are expensive, and they don't give any yields apart from the situational when a Trader passes through one. If you want to boost from [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones), both Aqueducts and Dams are much better options in terms of placement rules and yields. Overall, it is useful to know you have this extra tool at your fingertips, but how often you can make use of it is an entirely different story. You will never feel the need to build Canals immediately after they're unlocked, considering how full your plate is at this time.
Gerege (Kublai Khan).
Kublai Khan is the second leader in "Civilization VI" that can lead two civilizations; however, there are quite a few distinctions that can be drawn between him and [Eleanor%20of%20Aquitaine%20%28Civ6%29](Eleanor of Aquitaine). While Eleanor is a cultural leader through and through no matter the civilization she leads, Kublai's ability offers a higher level of utility and versatility. While Eleanor is highly synergistic with [French%20%28Civ6%29](France) but not so much so with [English%20%28Civ6%29](England), Kublai works well with both toolkits of China and [Mongolian%20%28Civ6%29](Mongolia). Nevertheless, the most glaring issue with Kublai Khan is the civilizations he leads are unidimensional: China is overwhelmingly a cultural civilization while Mongolia always aims for a Domination Victory, while Kublai seems to be worse than both pre-existing leaders to lead the civilizations to their preferred victories. He cannot match Qin Shi Huang on the cultural path and pales in comparison to [Genghis%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Genghis Khan) in terms of conquest. However, choosing Kublai Khan to lead either China or Mongolia means a higher degree of flexibility, and also, in the case of Kublai versus Qin, reliability. China under Kublai Khan is very straightforward thanks to his risk-free and omnipresent bonus from very early on.
"One extra Economic policy card slot in all governments".
This is what defines Kublai Khan, a powerful bonus that starts being effective right after researching the first civic, [Code%20of%20Laws%20%28Civ6%29](Code of Laws). The two Economic cards unlocked by this civic are [Urban%20Planning%20%28Civ6%29](Urban Planning) and [God%20King%20%28Civ6%29](God King). While Urban Planning is so much stronger than God King, most civilizations with no innate bonus toward early game generation are forced to run God King instead to found a pantheon in a reasonable amount of time. This extra Economic slot allows you to run both cards concurrently: you have an extra valuable toward all cities while still being able to generate . Then, once you have a pantheon, you can swap God King out for something like [Ilkum%20%28Civ6%29](Ilkum) and still run Urban Planning on top - these bonuses stack to provide an excellent platform for early development!
Later into the game, cards that boost yields (like [Natural%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Philosophy)), city development (like [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom)), wonder construction (like [Skyscrapers%20%28Civ6%29](Skyscrapers)), or late-game output (like [Satellite%20Broadcasts%20%28Civ6%29](Satellite Broadcasts)) are all Economic cards. Also, an extra Economic slot allows you to pick governments without many inherent Economic slots, such as [Autocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Autocracy), to make use of its wonder-building effect. 
Overall, this is a strong ability that starts to have an impact from the very first few turns to the end of the game. The best part is that this ability requires no planning at all, so it is more suitable to new players than what Qin Shi Huang has to offer. 
"Gain one random and when establishing a in a given civilization for the first time".
This bonus is the less impactful of the two but not totally useless. Every time you establish the first in a major civilization, you gain a random and , which goes well with the civilization ability of China. What it means by "random" is that the game will look at the earliest era where you still have techs and civics whose boosts haven't been triggered yet and then give you one and one . For example, if you have researched or triggered the boosts for all techs and civics of the Ancient Era, the game will give you a random and of the Classical Era, and though some techs/civics are more expensive than the others of the same era, this will not affect how the game will pick which boosts to give you. However, that also means the boosts you receive are totally random and there won't be a chance where you receive a boost in the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era) when the world is still in Classical. 
A trick with this ability is to avoid trading with any major civilizations until very late in the game, instead relying on s to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) for output, since late game boosts are a lot harder to trigger manually. For that reason, [Kumasi%20%28Civ6%29](Kumasi) is an incredible city-state for Kublai Khan to be the Suzerain of. Nevertheless, there is a catch to this. The later the game goes, the longer it takes to finish a . In the Ancient and Classical Era, the Trader takes a minimum of 21 turns to complete a round trip, plus 1 turn to return to the origin city, making it 22 turns. This minimum gets bumped up to 32 turns in the Medieval/Renaissance Era, 42 turns in the Industrial/Modern/Atomic Era, and a whopping 52 turns in the Information/Future Era, making the job of establishing a a laborious and somewhat unrealistic task. Therefore, a good compromise is to send out your s to major civilizations around the Medieval and Renaissance Eras, where boosts are getting harder to trigger, but the amount of time required for one round trip is still reasonable. Overall, as long as you remember to send out your s at some points, you're good to go, but don't expect this ability to carry you through the game.
Lijia (Yongle).
From a glimpse, Yongle is an insanely powerful leader, with an ability that incorporates the best parts of [Khmer%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer) and [Tokugawa%20%28Civ6%29](Tokugawa). He can gain a massive amount of , and from populous cities, while simultaneously converting of satellite cities into even more and for his empire, or grow them into core cities as well. The sky is the limit for China under Yongle. 
"The three Lijia projects".
These projects are available right from the get-go, in every city, without a requirement. They allow China to convert into or with 50% efficiency, or into with 100% efficiency. The lack of any requirements for these projects allows Yongle to rush for a [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) at an incredible speed. If [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Mali) and [Indonesian%20%28Civ6%29](Indonesia) are not present in the game, you are almost guaranteed the first pantheon pick, which most of the time translates into a quick second city with [Religious%20Settlements%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Settlements). [Lijia%20%28Faith%29%20%28Civ6%29](Lijia (Faith)) also allows you to bypass [God%20King%20%28Civ6%29](God King), an underwhelming card that most civilizations are forced to run to reach a pantheon. 
Later in the game, these projects still have a myriad of uses. First, [Lijia%20%28Food%29%20%28Civ6%29](Lijia (Food)), when used in combination with the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) + [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) set up, is crucial for cities to reach 10 Population and unlock the second part of Yongle's ability, and that is when all the yields go crazy. Second, Lijia (Faith) and [Lijia%20%28Gold%29%20%28Civ6%29](Lijia (Gold)) can convert of smaller or satellite cities into empire-wide currencies, making them useful and minimizing micromanagement in the late game. With basically a foolproof method of gaining an unlimited amount of and , China under Yongle is a threat to be reckoned with on any victory path. 
Considering the level of importance these 3 projects will be for your empire, getting the suzerainty of [Hong%20Kong%20%28Civ6%29](Hong Kong) is an absolute must if that [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) appears in your game. It will increase the conversion rate efficiency by 20%, which is 20% of extra or 10% of extra or . 
"Extra Science, Culture and Gold for cities with 10 Population or more".
And this is why Yongle is such a menace. 1 , 1 and 2 is the same amount of yields Tokugawa gains per specialty district (roughly 3 Population) for his s, which is already a powerful ability. Yongle gains the same amount for every Population in cities with 10 Population or more (so this is at least around 3 times better). Not to mention, Tokugawa's ability is limited by the number of s, which in turn is limited by availability, while Yongle's does not have this restriction. The only restriction Yongle has can be easily removed by running his unique project, [Lijia%20%28Food%29%20%28Civ6%29](Lijia (Food)). Gaining yields per Population is also reminiscent of the [Prasat%20%28Civ6%29](Prasat), one of the best buildings belonging to one of the best civilizations in the game. However, 0.5 per Population of the Prasat cannot be compared with 1 , 1 and 2 per Population of Yongle, especially when you consider that the Prasat has a requirement, and quite a high cost, including its own cost and the cost of a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) and [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine). Although Yongle's ability comes online slightly later than the aforementioned two, the moment Yongle's cities reach 10 Population, no other and granting abilities can even come close to this.
The moment one of your cities reach 10 Population, you will gain 20 , 10 and 10 per turn, which is an incredible burst of power. Also, this ability makes [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) an even more powerful opener for Governors, since the two tier-1 titles of Pingala basically turbo-charge Yongle's ability. For this reason, early growth is of utmost importance when playing as Yongle. Beside Lijia (Food), other modifiers can be employed to boost city growth as quickly as possible:
Also, the fact that he can reliably grow all of his cities to high Population means he can make good use of the [Rationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Rationalism) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card). Although China has no bonuses towards gaining extra adjacency for Campuses, once in a while you will have a Campus with high starting adjacency, since this is the easiest specialty to gain high starting adjacency, which adds an extra layer of for China.
Overall, Yongle is a powerful addition to the Chinese leader roster that can compete well for the title of the best leader ability in the game. Not only does he have access to an abundant amount of both and , he is also given the key to unlock those bonuses reliably every game. 
Manual of Entrapment (Wu Zetian).
At first glance, Wu Zetian may look like a copy and paste of [Catherine%20de%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29](Black Queen Catherine), the Spy at [Defensive%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Defensive Tactics) being the only immediate difference (though still not something to overlook, as [Castles%20%28Civ6%29](Castles) have twice the cost as Defensive Tactics have in , giving you an earlier Spy than any other civ). But this belies just how good Wu Zetian can get. Firstly the aforementioned early Spy can give you a massive step up in terms of [Diplomatic%20Visibility%20and%20Gossip%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Visibility) by the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era). No one will have a Spy this early, as even Catherine won't get hers until the next era, and other civilizations won't get theirs until the Renaissance.
Having a Classical Era Spy doesn't mean you can start stealing s and Great Works right away, as there is a high chance there isn't any port of entry nearby for your Spy to start stealing. However, you can use this time effectively by trying to level up your Spy via easy missions, like Foment Unrest, which also plays well into the second part of her ability. Each Spy operates as though they were 1 level higher. This isn't a massive bonus initially, as there are no Spies in the target city, but can still improve the chances of Siphon Funds or Steal Great Works if the opponent has any, and this can stack with the [Intelligence%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](Intelligence Agency). Furthermore, Wu gains 100% of the target city's , , and which has been produced this turn whenever an offensive espionage mission is successful. Remember that you require 8 turns to finish a mission, so on average you only gain 12.5% of the relevant yields from the target city - and that's assuming you succeed, which is never certain. Late in the game, any viable city is almost guaranteed to have a Spy protecting it - and before that, the yields from any given target city tend to be quite modest - but if you manage to find a good city at a good time, go for it!
The early Spy is also very useful for stealing tech boosts, which are further boosted by Dynastic Cycle, allowing for a greater focus on the civics tree without sacrificing too much progress on the tech tree, by letting other civilizations do the bulk of the for you. Besides, [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) are important for scientific players too, because many s have civic requirements, and again, s go further for China because of Dynastic Cycle. 
For these reasons, a few key promotions for Wu Zetian's Spies are:
The [Civilization%20VI%20August%202023%20Update](August 2023 Update) not only buffed both parts of Wu Zetian's ability (previously the level bonus only applied to offensive missions and the yield bonus was limited to 50% of the target city's and ), it adds a new unique element - Wu Zetian can now purchase Spies with . This is a powerful bonus, as every other civ has to hard-build Spies with they could be using for infrastructure or military units! However, China are inclined towards a Culture Victory - which typically needs late in the game - but lack advantages or incentives towards the religious game. Having a midgame use for before the arrival of [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists) and [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) is certainly an interesting development for China under Wu Zetian. You may want to build [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) early on if it is safe to do so, but don't have to drop everything to rush for a religion - remember, this "religious" infrastructure exists not for religious play but for (if you do get a religion, the Divine Inspiration belief is an excellent choice, as it will provide more from wonder-building and as China you want to do that anyway). Alternatively, [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserves) with a [Grove%20%28Civ6%29](Grove) can do that job and provide other yields, as long as the terrain has suitably high [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal).
Overall, Zetian even after the buffs is arguably still a middle of the pack leader for most games, and can be underwhelming if you don't manage to achieve much with your first Spy (i.e., if said Spy gets killed on his or her first offensive mission). She can synergise with China's general strengths for a Culture Victory, using her Spies to steal Great Works and China's [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) to build from the Medieval Era, though with some drop off late in the game. You can use Steal Tech Boost to help you pick up the military technologies on the bottom half of the tech tree whilst focusing your research on rushing towards technologies such as [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight) that directly help with cultural games.
Thirty-Six Stratagems (Unifier Qin Shi Huang).
Unifier Qin Shi Huang puts China on a completely different footing - a war footing. Rather than the peaceful advantages from other leader abilities, he can instead turn the threat into an opportunity, by converting these units to his side and then charging them at enemy civs!
This ability works exactly the same way as the Heathen Conversion ability for [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles); go next to Barbarian units, use the charge, and these Barbarian units become yours at the expense of the unit itself being consumed. As it specifically applies to melee units, you will want to make sure your initial unit production is directed towards [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors), and when you activate your Heathen Conversion ability, ensuring at least one melee unit is converted - this will mean you get another charge out of it. 
Interestingly, the [Hagia%20Sophia%20%28Civ6%29](Hagia Sophia) wonder offering extra religious charges also extends to the conversion charges from this leader ability, presumably due to the code being shared. However, with no incentive or advantage for Unifier Qin to found a religion, this will be a wonder to capture rather than build. 
Barbarian Outposts cannot spawn in land where you have visibility, so after you've done your initial scouting, send your units back home. Sooner or later, you'll notice a Barbarian [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scout) approach your borders; leave it alone, and it will return to its Outpost and then send more units your way. For most civilizations, this is something to proactively avoid; for Unifier Qin, it is the opposite, as those attacking units will soon become yours as long as your melee units get in position to convert them. This actually becomes stronger on higher difficulty levels, where more Barbarian units will be summoned - and stronger ones, too, once the AI headstart is translated into output. If [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon) is in the game, even better: their tech-leaping ability sometimes translates into more advanced Barbarian units, and now they can be yours! Similarly, if [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gaul) is present, you may get access to [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) for free about a whole era earlier. Even better, while Babylon and Gaul are struggling to accumulate and to upgrade or build their expensive units, you can piggyback on their special ability while circumventing these challenges.
However, theories will remain theories if the RNG of Barbarian spawns is not in your favor. Unifier Qin is an incredibly feast-or-famine leader; overall, among the 5 options for Chinese leaders, Unifier Qin is, by a large margin, the least reliable one, due to the fact the foundation of his ability is beyond anyone's control. Clearly, this ability is meant for you to be able to instantly gather a large army which can be used effectively for conquest, but it can also support a peaceful game by not only protecting you from pesky Barbarians, but allowing you to have a defensive army without using that could have gone towards infrastructure or wonder-building. If you cannot snowball in the early game when Barbarians are the most rampant, it can get significantly harder as the eras go by (unless Babylon is in the game), so it is quite crucial to realize when and in which game you should change course to rely on other bonuses of China. 
"Note: In the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), [Vampire%20%28Civ6%29](Vampires) that expend their last conversion charge are disbanded. In the [Zombie%20Defense%20%28Civ6%29](Zombie Defense) game mode, [Zombie%20%28Civ6%29](Zombies) converted by this ability remain under Chinese control permanently, and newly converted Zombies also have the Barbarian Conversion ability to convert even more Barbarians/Zombies."
Crouching Tiger.
The Crouching Tiger can never fully replace the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman), which is also unlocked by [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery). Compared to its contemporary, it has the same Combat Strength, 10 more Ranged Strength, and 1 less , but is 40 cheaper. While the Crossbowman's greater gives it a huge advantage on offense, the Crouching Tiger is better suited for defense, especially when used in conjunction with the [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall).
Like all units with 1 , the Crouching Tiger exposes itself to retaliation each time it gets close enough to fire at an enemy, but placing it on a Great Wall segment gives it a +10 Defense Strength bonus. The [Garrison%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison) works especially well with a Crouching Tiger placed on a Great Wall segment, since it will gain 10 Combat Strength on both offense and defense. Another use for this unit is to put it in an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment), so you can enjoy its high Ranged Strength without fear of retaliation. Nevertheless, if you time your attacks right, it's possible to move Crouching Tigers within range of enemy units and fire before they can react! 50 Ranged Strength will do decent damage to all [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) units except [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights), especially if you've managed to accumulate some s beforehand.
Since the Crouching Tiger is a standalone unit, you cannot pre-build other units to upgrade into them, but its low cost allows you to quickly train some of them if you're targeted for declarations of war, especially with [Feudal%20Contract%20%28Civ6%29](Feudal Contract) (which is unlocked with [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism), a [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) China will always want to beeline). In the expansions, there shouldn't be any repercussions if you train one Crouching Tiger just for the [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), since it isn't vital to any Chinese strategies. Make sure you keep that unit around rather than deleting it, though - [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) ranged attacks take the highest Ranged Strength of any unit you have, and for China the Crouching Tiger will hold that distinction until you build a [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigate) or [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannon). 
Great Wall.
The Great Wall is a mediocre tile improvement in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and ' because it requires the highest level of commitment among all improvements, yet its yields are not always worth the investment. However, it puts on a completely different face in ', playing a key role in propelling China toward a fast [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory).
The Great Wall initially provides the same defensive bonus as a [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Fort), though it becomes available earlier and has more placement restrictions. As with all Fort-like improvements, it provides any unit on its tile with a +10 Combat Strength bonus on defense. This aspect is available a whole [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) earlier than the regular Fort, and since it is built by a Builder rather than a [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineer), it is quite a lot cheaper. Great Wall segments can't be built in neutral territory like Forts and other defensive improvements can, but building them at choke points can help China repel invaders with a smaller army than normal. The Chinese [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit), the [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tiger), complements the Great Wall quite nicely because of its defensive nature.
The Great Wall's initial yield is 2 , plus an additional 2 for each adjacent Great Wall segment. Since a Great Wall cannot be next to more than two other segments, this maxes out at +6 , which is rather strong if you have suitable open land to put multiple segments in a line. You can even start putting down Great Wall segments right after unlocking it to boost your economy; however, you shouldn't go overboard because it doesn't provide the , , or that cities need early on. The fun truly starts after you unlock [Castles%20%28Civ6%29](Castles), as every Great Wall will provide 2 for every adjacent Great Wall, which means as long as you can clear land and line up your Great Walls, each segment (except for the ones at the two ends) will provide 6 and 4 as early as the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). Therefore, Castles is a crucial checkpoint that China has to reach on the tech tree; meanwhile, on the civic tree, [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) needs to be beelined to unlock [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom). Depending on how long you can chain your Wall segments, you can unlock civics from this point onward at an incredible speed that can be matched by very few other civilizations. And of course, after researching [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight), Great Walls will start generating . An optimally placed Great Wall segment can generate 4 , which is as much as a Great Work of Music. Before the release of "Gathering Storm", a Great Wall segment has no base yield and receives only +1 and +1 from adjacent segments, meaning each one can only reach 2 and 2 at most.
Considering how important this improvement is to China, especially when you are aiming for a Cultural Victory, there are a few quirks with its placement rule that you should know. As with most other improvements, (all three types of) [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) block the placement of Great Wall segments, so Chinese cities should be founded along rivers that won't flood. Unlike other Fort-like improvements, however, the Great Wall can be placed on [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil) and cannot be removed by [Disaster%20%28Civ6%29](natural disasters), so areas near [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanoes) are very attractive for China. Also, since you can only place Great Walls along your borders, beware of the situation where you place a few segments of Great Walls, leave them for a while, and then cannot continue extending them since the borders have since expanded outward. This situation is especially pronounced with coastal cities, since their borders will always expand outward towards the oceans where you cannot place your Walls.
In the [Zombie%20Defense%20%28Civ6%29](Zombie Defense) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), the Great Wall functions like a [Barricade%20%28Civ6%29](Barricade) and deals damage to [Zombie%20%28Civ6%29](Zombies) and other enemies trying to approach China's cities, giving them a defensive edge.
Victory Types.
As explained above, Science and Cultural Victories are the easiest paths for the Chinese to follow. A Cultural Victory may be easier under Qin Shi Huang (Mandate of Heaven) since building wonders also has direct ties with (especially considering how much better early wonders scale in ), whereas a Science Victory may be easier under Kublai Khan (thanks to the s from his s, especially on larger [Map%20%28Civ6%29](maps) with more players) or Wu Zetian (thanks to her espionage advantages). Yongle has a boost to both of these win conditions through the empire-wide yields he can gain from his leader ability.
Qin Shi Huang (Unifier) is weaker at these conditions, but instead has an assist towards Domination Victory, thanks to an ability to effectively gain a large miltary at very little cost. This is particularly effective against scientific civs, who will unlock advanced units (that can then potentially appear in Barbarian Outposts) but may not build many themselves.
Counter Strategy.
"Qin Shi Huang (Mandate of Heaven)".
Qin Shi Huang with this ability has a rather obvious timing push outlined by his ability within the first two eras of the game, as he will most likely dedicate all of their into building wonders that help shape his victory path and the remaining course of their game. It is also worth noting that the Chinese unique unit (which is also of a defensive nature) is not unlocked until Machinery and they will most likely not be building a lot of Great Wall segments, since Builder charges are incredibly valuable to China in the early part of the game. If the civilization you are playing has a military advantage in the Ancient and Classical Era (unique unit, leader or civilization ability, etc.), it is even easier for you to strategize a military conquest over China. If you are a late game oriented civilization, rush them with [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors), [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers) and early cavalry units; your job is not to take their cities (it is good if you can though), but to harass and force them to build an army to defend themselves, thus hampering their progress in laying a sound foundation. Once the Classical Era is over, so is their timing wonder rush.
"Kublai Khan".
Kublai Khan can afford to play a little bit more defensively. Due to the Chinese civilization ability, they will still likely focus on building wonders, but they will also be able to dedicate toward units and Builder charges toward the Great Wall. Similarly to the approach against Qin Shi Huang, invade them before they can prepare their military. In the late game, by declaring war on them every so often, you prevent them from establishing a in your nation and getting the free boosts.
"Yongle".
Yongle's leader ability is absolutely terrifying... for peaceful development. If you spawn near him, consider an early war even if you don't have obvious advantages to doing so. You don't even need to take his cities, just to disrupt their growth. Pillage everything in sight, particularly [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms), and you'll stop those cities from offering empire-wide yields that can help him snowball. That said, if you "do" capture his cities, so much the better, you can raze them and all that Population progress is undone.
"Wu Zetian".
There's relatively little counterplay for this ability immediately - not even [Catherine%20de%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29](Black Queen Catherine) can get a Spy in the Classical Era, so you'll have to rely on sheer luck and maybe the [Diplomatic%20Quarter%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Quarter) to stop her Spies - but remember that the yield bonuses from offensive missions provide an active incentive to send every Spy into foreign lands rather than keeping any for counter-espionage! Therefore, you can definitely consider giving her a taste of her own medicine.
Alternatively, if you can form an alliance with Wu, she won't target your cities. Helpfully, her [Agenda%20%28Civ6%29](Agenda) makes her easier to befriend if you have a weak military - and if you have a strong one? She has no direct military advantages, so conquest should be possible...
"Qin Shi Huang (Unifier)".
If Unifier Qin can't convert Barbarians, he effectively doesn't have a leader ability. Going Barbarian-hunting like you're [Gilgamesh%20%28Civ6%29](Gilgamesh) is a good move if you start near him, and because Barbarian Outposts can't spawn in land anyone has visibility over, you might want to keep some units near his border, not to attack him or even to threaten him, but to deny him any Barbarians to flip to his side.