# Citadel (Civ5)

Game Info.
Great tile improvement. Constructed by a [Great%20General%20%28Civ5%29](Great General) on or adjacent to your [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory).
Strategy.
Citadels have a variety of strategic uses, both during war and times of peace. Place Citadels at choke points in [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) (e.g. rough terrain like [Hill%20%28Civ5%29](hill) ranges) to defend your [Borders%20%28Civ5%29](borders), forcing would-be attackers to either suffer heavy losses or attack from a less direct path. While they do not exert a [Zone%20of%20control%20%28Civ5%29](Zone of Control) to block fast units, they automatically "attack" by inflicting 30 percentage points of damage (i.e., 30% of a [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](unit's) max [HP](HP)) to any enemies stationed nearby.
Unlike the capturable [Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Fort), you cannot place your own Citadel over top of an existing Citadel in foreign territory, even if it's adjacent to your own borders, nor can you build it outside your borders.
Citadels in wartime will continue to cause automatic damage to enemy units, including enemy units inside the Citadel or an adjacent [City%20%28Civ5%29](city). They are still susceptible to enemy pillaging; while they will cease to function, unlike a regular Fort improvement they may be repaired.
In the expansions, even while outside of war, Citadels can be used to immediately acquire neighboring land tiles that contain a variety of important [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resources) (much like the [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Artist's) special action). This essentially allows you to steal strategic or luxury resources from either an enemy [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) or a nearby [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-state). Stealing land from enemy civilizations causes a [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomacy) penalty, so stealing from a more powerful opponent isn't advisable. On the other hand, stealing from city-states only incurs an decrease and doesn't seem to anger their allies.