# City (Civ5)

A city is the basic unit of a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization), and in many ways they are its most valuable type of possession. Cities do most of the advancement in a civilization, generating , , , and , as well as (in ') and (in ') for an empire. Cities also have the ability to produce [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) and [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units), and build [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders). All tiles with cities on them have a [Road%20%28Civ5%29](road), even if [The%20Wheel%20%28Civ5%29](The Wheel) hasn't been discovered yet.
A civilization is eliminated from the game (unless the "Require Complete Kills" option in the Custom Game menu has been selected) when all of its cities have been captured.
In the beginning of all games, [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenarios), and [Modding%20%28Civ5%29](mods), civilizations will either have cities laid out or start with at least one [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settler) to found a city. In advanced start, cities must be built before any units may be placed on the [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map). For more information on the effects of settling a city and tips on successful settling, check [Settling%20a%20city%20%28Civ5%29](this article).
Border Expansion.
An empire's [Borders%20%28Civ5%29](borders) are created and expanded by cities. Each time a new city is founded (starting with the ), an empire's territory expands into the tiles immediately adjacent to the new city.
City Population and Work.
Cities are locations where an empire's people are clustered. In the game rules and mechanics, a city has a certain , which corresponds to its number of Citizens. in a city starts at 1, and will continue to grow under the right circumstances. Besides determining the size of the city, citizens serve as the workforce of an empire. They are assigned to "work" the land around their city (again, up to three tiles away), or fill the slots created by certain buildings inside the city. This assignment is automatic, but can be reassigned manually from the city screen.
Without citizens working the land, the surrounding terrain's yield potential (, , , etc.) remains untapped, and the city will not benefit from the tiles' yields. When a tile is worked by a citizen from a nearby city, its yields are added to the city's total yields. The tile the city is located on is automatically worked for free.
Generating yields.
The overall yields of a city, or how much of each statistical resource it is producing, depends on many factors, but paramount among them are:
Depending on what resources the empire or a particular city needs, consider carefully where to assign citizens and also consider what [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements) should be constructed on the surrounding lands to improve upon the base yield (especially Farms to increase Growth and increased ); additionally, always have a strategy for the long-term development of a city, and use it to determine what buildings to build in it, and in what order.
Population Growth.
The growth of a city, or the birth of new citizens, is determined by the city's available . The more a city is producing, the faster its will grow. growth will slow dramatically if an empire is not Happy.
Producing items.
Every city has the ability to produce buildings, units, or [Project%20%28Civ5%29](projects). The availability of each depends on whether the [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology) unlocking it has been researched, and whether its prerequisites have been met. For example, certain buildings may only be built if a city is in a tile adjacent to a [Coast%20%28Civ5%29](Coast), or if a certain type of building has already been built in all of a civilization's cities, etc. Once all prerequisites have been met, the building or unit can be assigned as the next production project.
Everything a city can produce has a total cost, measured in Production Points (PPs), which must be reached in order to complete the item. The number of turns it takes to complete production is determined by the total number of PPs produced by the city per turn. When a city has spent enough turns and generated enough production towards the item in question, and when the total is reached, the project is done. As a rule, the more advanced the thing being built is, the more it costs, so as the [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras) progress, a city either needs to increase its potential or take more turns to produce what it needs.
Buildings.
These are permanent structures erected in a city. Once built, they produce their benefit continuously. Only one of each building may be built in each city.
Almost all buildings cost an empire some as maintenance each turn. -generating buildings (such as the [Market%20%28Civ5%29](Market)) and defensive buildings (such as the [Castle%20%28Civ5%29](Castle)) have no maintenance.
Units.
Both military and civilian units may be produced in cities. Unlike buildings, an empire can produce as many units as desired (assuming the required [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resource), such as or , is available), but each unit costs to maintain. Also, there is a limit to the total number of units an empire can build without penalty. This is based on ; for example, an empire with a of 8 may have up to 17 units (including [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers)). For each unit over that, production empire-wide is reduced 10%. In this case, a red dot with a white, angled exclamation point will appear at the top of the map to the right of the strategic resources icons. Clicking on the icon will reveal the percent reduction. If Raging Barbarians is active, this can easily happen to [German%20%28Civ5%29](Germany) if it recruits too many. Once finished, units appear in the city they were produced in, ready to be moved out and used.
Production of a certain unit or building can be stopped and resumed as many times as desired until it is finished. In the case of wonders, each city can start the project (if it meets the necessary prerequisites), but production of the same project cannot be transferred between cities. For example, a civilization can't start the [Colossus%20%28Civ5%29](Colossus) in City A, then stop it, and continue it in City B from the same production point. If another civilization completes a wonder first, then it will be unable to be completed and the accumulated will be converted to .
Gold purchasing.
 can be used to instantly purchase any building or unit which has been unlocked empire-wide in a city (in the case of a building, the city also must fulfill the necessary prerequisites). If there already is a unit in the city in which a purchase is being made, it may need to be moved out of the city before purchasing another unit in accordance with the rules concerning unit stacking.
In the "" expansion, certain units and buildings can be purchased with . See [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](Religion) for more info.
Capturing Cities.
During [war](war), a city may be captured if it loses all its [HP](HP) and an enemy melee unit manages to move into it. The city loses a portion of its in the process (roughly half of it), and it takes some turns for all damage to infrastructure to be repaired and for the city to return to full HP. Also, all defensive structures ([Walls%20%28Civ5%29](Walls), [Castle%20%28Civ5%29](Castles), [Arsenal%20%28Civ5%29](Arsenals), and [Military%20Base%20%28Civ5%29](Military Bases), or their replacements), and a random selection of other buildings in the captured city are destroyed.
Capturing a city gives the following options:
Cities can also be "traded," but this only happens under certain circumstances, almost always in the case of peace offerings from the losing side of a war. Traded cities are treated as if they were obtained through conquest (save for [Assyrian%20%28Civ5%29](Assyria's) [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) not getting activated).
Resistance.
When a city is acquired, be it via conquest or diplomacy, its population will resist the new owner's domination for a number of turns, usually equal to the remaining , less if the is very large. While in resistance, the city cannot build anything, and do not contribute to a civilization's resources. However, it immediately adds to the empire's . If an empire completes the [CN%20Tower%20%28Civ5%29](CN Tower), which adds and a [Broadcast%20Tower%20%28Civ5%29](Broadcast Tower) to every city in that empire, the new tower will appear in cities still in resistance.
City Names.
Most civilizations have a list of city names that will be assigned to their cities in the order they are founded, as detailed in (though players have the option to manually change their cities' names). If a civ founds a city after every name on its city list has been used, the city's name will be taken at random from another in-game civ's city list. If all the names on the other in-game civs' city lists have been used, new cities' names will be taken at random from the city lists of civs not present in the game.
The [Hunnic%20%28Civ5%29](Huns) are an exception to this rule: all of their cities except their take their names from the bottom of other in-game civs' city lists.