# Civilization II

Civilization II, also known as Civ II or Civ 2, is a [turn-based%20strategy](turn-based strategy) game designed by [Brian%20Reynolds](Brian Reynolds), [Douglas%20Caspian-Kaufman](Douglas Caspian-Kaufman), and [Jeff%20Briggs](Jeff Briggs). Although it is a sequel to "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](Sid Meier's Civilization)", neither [Sid%20Meier](Sid Meier) nor [Bruce%20Shelley](Bruce Shelley) was involved in its development. "Civilization II" was first released in 1996 for the PC and later ported to the Sony PlayStation.
In 2002 [Atari](Atari) re-released the game for newer operating systems, such as Windows ME and Windows XP.
The "" was included in the "[Civilization%20Chronicles](Civilization Chronicles)" box set released in 2006.
Gameplay.
"Civilization II" is similar to the first "Civilization", with some changes to the units and civilizations and additional wonders, units, tile "specials," and technologies included. The graphics (greatly improved with clickable links and movable windows) have been changed from top-down view to isometric representation. The Artificial Intelligence, or [AI](AI), was improved upon as well, including the elimination of most random events (such as the situation where Wonders of the World were built spontaneously in the original "Civilization") by now making the computer player go through the same production requirements as the human player.
Rivers no longer occupy the whole of each tile along its length. The river is just part of each topography square it flows through, adding productive value and movement ability. Rivers (as in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Colonization)") now act much like roads - moving one square along a river will cost only 1/3 of a movement point.
The [game](game) features entirely new concepts, such as firepower and [hitpoints](hitpoints) (meaning [Phalanx%20%28Civ2%29](Phalanx)es cannot so easily beat [Battleship%20%28Civ2%29](Battleship)s), and changes some units' abilities and strengths. For instance, [Settlers%20%28Civ2%29](Settlers) (and the [Engineers%20%28Civ2%29](Engineers) who supersede them) can be automated to improve surrounding areas, but no longer ignore enemy [Zone%20of%20control%20%28Civ2%29](zones of control). [Legion%20%28Civ2%29](Legion)s cost more and have greater attack and defense values; some new units are added such as [Stealth%20Bomber%20%28Civ2%29](Stealth Bomber) and [Stealth%20Fighter%20%28Civ2%29](Stealth Fighter).
One memorable element in the game is the ability to consult the "[High%20Council%20%28Civ2%29](High Council)" for advice (as long as the player still has the CD in the drive). (The original "[Civ](Civ)" has relatively primitive static versions of similar advisers.) The council consists of film clips of young actors portraying advisers in the areas of the military (a brawny man, often drunk, angry, or both; he becomes a stereotypical American general when you reach Modern Age), economics (a snooty and suave businessman), diplomacy (a saucy Femme Fatale with a vaguely Eastern European accent), technological progress (a stereotypically nerdy scientist), and the people's happiness (an [Elvis%20Presley](Elvis Presley) lookalike). They often argue with and insult one another, as each adviser's department demands a different set of priorities. The counsellors' costumes change with each new era. In many ways, the "High Council" constitutes a bit of comic relief. Amusingly, when the player is experiencing [Anarchy%20%28Civ2%29](anarchy), the characters begin talking at the same time, interrupting each other, and finally beginning to fight, with all counsellor windows shutting down and turning into the "A" symbol of Anarchism.
Victory.
As in the original "Civilization", there are two paths to victory in this game: to conquer every other civilization, or to build a [Spaceship%20%28Civ2%29](spaceship) and be the first to reach [Alpha%20Centauri%20%28star%20system%29](Alpha Centauri). The latter can be much more difficult because there are a limited number of turns in the game, ending in the year [2020%20AD](2020). If the spaceship does not reach Alpha Centauri by then, the game will simply end. The player can continue playing after all civilizations have been conquered, the spaceship has reached its destination, or the year 2020, but there will no longer be any scoring. The sooner a player conquers every other civilization, or the spaceship arrives, the better as far as scoring is concerned. However, there are many things that can be done to gain points, so it occasionally is better to hold off victory to gain more points by, say, researching extra technologies or building another Wonder or growing the population.
Scoring.
There is a scoring system that will measure how well the player did. Each [Attitude%20%28Civ2%29](happy) citizen contributes two points, each content citizen contributes one point, and each [Attitude%20%28Civ2%29](unhappy) citizen contributes zero points. This means that the higher the population of your civilization, the higher you can expect your score to be. Clever players may increase the [Tax%20rate%20%28Civ2%29](luxury rate) to the maximum (depending upon their [Government%20%28Civ2%29](government) type) right before the very end of the game in order to inflate their scores. Each wonder of the world will add 20 points to the end score. Each square with [Pollution%20%28Civ2%29](pollution) deducts ten points. The final score will give a civilization percentage. The higher this percentage is, the better. Finally, a title will be given to the player. Particularly good ones include "Lion-Hearted" and "the Great," with the greatest obtainable title being "The Magnificent."
Scenarios.
Base Game.
[The%20Rise%20of%20Rome%20%28Civ2%29](The Rise of Rome) and [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29](World War II) came with the base game. They were never part of any [expansion%20pack](expansion pack).
Expansion packs.
There were two expansion packs that slowly added more features to the game. The first was "", which included 20 new scenarios, 12 created by the makers of the game and 8 produced by fans. It also added an enhanced macro language for scenario scripting.
The twelve scenarios created by [MicroProse](MicroProse):
The "Best of the Net," pack 1:
It was followed by "", which added 19 new scenarios as well as a variety of editors for the game. 
The eleven scenarios created by MicroProse:
The "Best of the Net," pack 2:
Fans have made and published others. Notable could be those produced by Carl Fritz (whose email address was cfritz@angelfire.com). See link below. You need either the "Fantastic Worlds" (FW) add-on for "Civilization II" or the "Multiplayer Gold Edition" (MGE).
"Multiplayer Gold Edition".
Later, the original game was re-released as "Civilization II: Multiplayer Gold Edition", which bundled both prior expansion packs and added options for networked and hotseat play, and features tweaked AI. However, all of the music tracks that were in the original release of "Civilization II" have been removed - only some of the "new" ones remain. The tweaked AI is also perpetually unfriendly, rendering most diplomatic functions useless.
"Multiplayer Gold Edition" made major undocumented changes to several scenarios. For example, in the Civil War scenario, the protagonist was flipped from the Union to the Confederacy, and in the Apocalypse scenario, one of the mutant leaders' names was changed and new terrain artwork was added.
"Test of Time".
"Civilization II: Test of Time" was released in [1999](1999). It was a stand-alone game with new features, such as redrawn, animated units, support for multiple maps in one game, and some new campaign modes.
Reception.
"Civ II" was placed on the IGN.com Top 100 Games list, coming in at #4. This list also included console games, and "Civ II" was the highest-ranked PC game.
Legacy.
"Civilization II" is a game with longevity. While most PC games come and go in a matter of months, this game was still going strong after several years and inspired many titles including [Activision](Activision)'s [Call%20to%20Power%20games]("Call to Power" series) and "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)". This longevity, at least in part, is due to an unending stream of mods and scenarios produced by its enormous fan base. The game was followed by [Firaxis%20Games](Firaxis') "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)".
Civilizations.
As in the original "Civilization", no more than seven civilizations may exist at one time, and any destroyed early are reincarnated by another of the same color. During a game, each color in play will be represented by only one of the civs listed in its row, shown below. Barbarians do not act like regular [non-player%20character](NPCs) in this game (they just attack and pillage); they can take over a city and produce units (but will not produce Settlers to expand). Turns are taken in the order of colors shown below.
Units.
There are over 45 [unit](unit)s in "Civilization II". Most of them existed in the original "Civilization", but there are a few new ones ([Paratrooper%20%28Civ2%29](Paratrooper) and [Marines%20%28Civ2%29](Marines), for example), and a few have been renamed. (For example, [Militia%20%28Civ1%29](Militia) are now called [Warrior%20%28Civ2%29](Warrior)s, and [Cavalry%20%28Civ1%29](Cavalry) are now called [Horsemen%20%28Civ2%29](Horsemen).) In addition, some previous units have had their properties changed. The clearest examples of this are: the [Legion%20%28Civ2%29](Legion) has its attack and defense strengths increased, the [Chariot%20%28Civ2%29](Chariot)'s attack was reduced from 4 to 3, and sea units can no longer conquer an enemy city.
These units, along with their respective characteristics (prerequisite techs, ADM values, etc.) are listed in the controlling file 'rules.txt', and can be altered to enhance gameplay (see [Civilization%20II%23Game%20Modification](Game Modification) section). The 'rules.txt' file also contains support for 3 additional units (11 with the expansion), with 3 icons already included.
As in Civ1, the Barbarians have a special version of the diplomat that acts as a 'leader' to various spawned units; 'capturing' (defeating) it (when it is alone) will net the player a certain amount of gold, that amount depending on the [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ2%29](difficulty level). A popup box will report this is a 'ransom payment'.
City improvements.
There are 34 City Improvements (buildings) that can be constructed to improve some aspect of that city's production, happiness, growth, defense, or economic or scientific output. Many of them add cumulative benefits with their earlier versions (such as a [Bank%20%28Civ2%29](Bank) requiring but also working in addition to the [Marketplace%20%28Civ2%29](Marketplace), and the same for the [University%20%28Civ2%29](University) building upon the benefits of a [Library%20%28Civ2%29](Library)). Some improvements can be affected by a Civilization Advance or Wonder of the World (e.g., the effects of a [Temple%20%28Civ2%29](Temple) are doubled with the [Oracle%20%28Civ2%29](Oracle)), whereas others are automatically granted (e.g., a [Granary%20%28Civ2%29](Granary) exists in every city of the player that controls the [Pyramids%20%28Civ2%29](Pyramids)).
A special case exists for the [Barracks%20%28Civ2%29](Barracks) improvement (similar to that in Civ1). With the development of [Gunpowder%20%28Civ2%29](Gunpowder), all existing Barracks become obsolete (and are sold, which is an improvement on Civ1) and have to be rebuilt (and cost 2 gold per turn instead of the original 1 gold per turn). Then, with the development of [Mobile%20Warfare%20%28Civ2%29](Mobile Warfare) (not [Combustion%20%28Civ2%29](Combustion) as in Civ1), Barracks become obsolete and are sold again and have to be rebuilt once more (with the cost of 3 gold per turn). If a captured city has a Barracks of any type, it becomes the sort the captor is operating with.
In addition to the 34 traditional buildings, there are 4 other non-Wonders that can be constructed in a city.
First, after the discovery of [Corporation%20%28Civ2%29](Corporation), a player can 'build' the [Capitalization%20%28Civ2%29](Capitalization) improvement that converts each production shield to one gold. In effect, the city is producing money.
Secondly, as in Civ1, there are 3 types of spaceship improvements: [SS%20Component%20%28Civ2%29](Spaceship Component) (prerequisite: [Plastics%20%28Civ2%29](Plastics)), [SS%20Module%20%28Civ2%29](Spaceship Module) ([Superconductor%20%28Civ2%29](Superconductor)), and [SS%20Structural%20%28Civ2%29](Spaceship Structural) ([Space%20Flight%20%28Civ2%29](Space Flight)). These are built to complete the spaceship, which is said to be launched from the civilization's [Capital%20%28Civ2%29](capital city). Construction (or flight) ceases if the capital is captured. There is a minimum number of each type required to launch, and there is a maximum number of each that can be used in the overall construction of the spaceship. Note: using the maximum configuration greatly improves the score obtained with a successful landing; but if trying to beat another power a player may build the minimum number of modules but with maximum propulsion and fuel, to get there faster.
Game modification.
While expansions are sold separately, the PC version is programmed so that computer-savvy players can modify the game themselves. Amongst the files installed on the user's computer when the game is installed is a file called "rules.txt" that controls the game. The text file itself encourages the user to modify the game, giving instructions on how to change unit capabilities, add up to three custom units, and change other basic characteristics of the game, like when wonders expire, but it carries a warning that altering the parameters too much can cause the game to behave strangely.
Some commercial versions (as noted above) also include premade [scenario](scenario)s (with files ending in ".scn"). Examples are "Rome" and "World War II".
Advanced computer users can also modify the game by changing the visual files (units.gif) to change the appearance of units, terrain, people, etc.
NOTE: It is advised that, before modifying any of these files, the user copy these files to a safe location in case any file is changed in a way that affects the game irreparably.
Multimedia.
Civilization II's music is in the [Red%20Book%20%28audio%20CD%20standard%29](Red Book) CD-audio format, the same as that found on normal music CDs. It is not in [MIDI](MIDI) or another computer-specific format. The songs are quite varied; some are from the 19th century classical era, such as the [Blue%20Danube%20Waltz](Blue Danube Waltz), while others have a tribal, tropical sound to them. The music can be played back through any CD-ROM drive. Over 200 MB of space on the Civilization II CD is taken up by the music, 280 MB is occupied by the videos (many of them are historical footages), whereas the actual program data takes up less than 30 MB.
External links.
Other links