# Civilizations

A civilization (commonly called a "civ" for short) is the "character" through which a player participates in the "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" and "[Call%20to%20Power%20games](Call to Power)" series. In the base game, a civilization represents a gestalt historical cultural group, nation-state, and/or pluralistic empire. In [scenario](scenario)s and [mods](mods) with non-historical settings, civs may represent other social entities, such as political factions and [corporation](corporation)s. The player's goal is to lead their civ to [victory](victory) through [Combat](military might), [Science](scientific achievement), [Culture](cultural), [Economy](economic), or [Religion](religious) hegemony, and/or [Diplomacy](diplomatic consensus).
A civilization features a variable roster of cosmetic attributes, such as [city](city) names, [leaders](leaders), and architectural styles, and in games that feature them, specific [%23Civ-specific%20attributes](mechanical advantages) such as [unique%20unit](unique unit)s. Even without tangible bonuses, civs usually have particular [AI](AI) behaviors reflecting their historical influences and accomplishments.
## Overview

A civilization comprises a number of attributes representing its cultural, economic, scientific, political, and military potential:
Cities and economy.
As the name implies, a civilization represents a settled society, organized as [City](cities) on the [map](map). Cities are the main engines of economic development, using the surrounding [terrain](terrain) to grow their [population](population) and [Production](supply manual labor). Cities' aggregate commercial activity provides the civilization with [Gold%20%28currency%29](tax revenue) that can be allocated toward different ends, including [luxuries](luxuries) to improve [citizen](citizen)s' [Happiness](wellbeing), and research to develop social insights and [List%20of%20technologies](technologies). In addition to [City%20improvement](local improvements), cities provide sites for [Wonder](Wonders of the World), major architectural and/or social achievements that give their controlling civ special rewards.
In later games, cities also exert [Culture](cultural) influence for various effects, such as [Territory](territorial claims) and susceptibility to rival [Espionage](sedition). Beginning in "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)", cultural supremacy is a non-violent means of claiming victory.
A standard game normally begins with the player in control of a [Settler](Settler) which represents a nomadic tribe transitioning to sedentary society. [Gameplay](Gameplay)-wise, civs are fundamentally distinguished from [barbarian](barbarian)s by their [urbanization](urbanization): a civilization is typically defeated when it no longer controls any cities, although some games allow a civ to persist if at least one Settler remains in play.
Units.
A civilization exerts influence beyond its cities through [unit](unit)s, mobile map actors representing the standing armed forces, [Trade](state-sponsored merchants), [Worker](civilian engineers), and in later games, [Missionary](religious missionaries) and . Military units [Combat](defend the civ's territory and attacks its rivals), while workers [Tile%20improvement](modify the terrain) to increase city [resource](resource)s, [Road](facilitate transit), and/or secure strategic locations with [fortress](fortress)es and [airbase](airbase)s.
Society and government.
A civilization's legal framework, political culture, and/or civic values are represented by its [Government](form of government), which influences gameplay aspects such as city production and [corruption](corruption), [maintenance](maintenance) and unit support, and diplomatic options when negotiating with other civs. In the original games, governments comprise a limited selection of archetypes representing broad historical paradigms; "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" replaced this linear model with a dynamic that allows combinations of different policies across five discrete branches.
Government in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" is represented by [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies), which are developed through and are not mutually exclusive. The "" [expansion%20pack](expansion pack) introduces [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](Ideologies) as a complementary component in the , which are organized into mutually exclusive groups similar to governments in previous games. "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" uses [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) that function similarly to "Civilization V", but that can become [Obsolete%23Civilization%20VI](obsolete) as a civilization's [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics) advance.
"Civilization IV" also introduces [religion](religion) as a game mechanic. In addition to passive per-faith culture bonuses, cities hosting particular faiths have access to unique s. Officially adopting a faith as a state religion enables additional bonuses through Civics and certain s. In later games, religions are much more competitive: their founding civ can customize and develop their effects as the game progresses, but cities can only benefit from a single faith's bonuses at a time. In "Civilization VI", [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](religious hegemony) is a non-violent means of achieving victory.
Diplomacy and espionage.
Diplomacy encompasses interactions between civilizations, framed as direct negotiations by their respective leaders (or in "Civilization II", their heralds). The original "Civilization" features extremely limited diplomatic choices of peace and [war](war), with options to offer gifts or attempt to extort tribute. "Civilization II" introduces additional relations such as [alliance](alliance)s, and implements persistent reputation scores that influence how willing AI civs are to deal with the player and/or each other. Successive games further diversify diplomatic options, some of which only become available with specific research. Beginning in "Civilization III", enables a non-violent victory through the election of a civilization as world leader.
Barbarians are uniquely hostile and will not engage in diplomacy. Unlike fighting other civs, they do not require a formal state of war to combat.
[Espionage](Espionage) is a complementary mechanic, encompassing covert and clandestine actions that can be conducted irrespective of formal diplomatic relations as a means of avoiding direct military confrontation. In earlier games, it is performed by dedicated units; later games can involve a combination of units and other components, as in and . Seditious activity can be exposed, however, potentially triggering open war with the aggrieved civilization.
Civ-specific attributes.
The [Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](original "Civilization") features minor mechanical differences between civs, in the form of different [AI](AI) behavior archetypes. "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)" introduces additional cosmetic flavor, including separate male and female leaders, government titles, and city graphics.
Beginning in "Civilization III", civs feature "unique units," customized versions of the game's normal arsenal that represent the civ's historical proficiency, mythology, and/or cultural legacy. Similarly, "Civilization IV" introduces "[unique%20building](unique building)s" as complementary variations on city improvements. "Civ III" also added a roster of [List%20of%20strengths%20in%20Civ3](traits) to diversify civilizations' play strategies; this was further developed in "Civilization V" as individual specializations.
Comparison tables.
&lt;tabber&gt;
&lt;/tabber&gt;