# Civilization IV

Sid Meier's Civilization IV (called Civilization IV or Civ4 for short) is a released in 2005 and developed by [Soren%20Johnson](Soren Johnson) under the direction of [Sid%20Meier](Sid Meier) and Meier's [Firaxis%20Games](Firaxis Games). Until 2010 it would be the latest installment of the acclaimed [Civilization%20%28series%29]("Civilization" series). "Civilization IV" was released between October 25 and November 4, 2005 in North America, Europe, and Australia.
The game's first expansion, ', was released on July 24, 2006. The second and final expansion, ', was released on July 23, 2007.
## Overview

"Civilization IV" is a turn-based game in which the player builds an [empire](empire) from scratch. All standard full-length games begin in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ4%29](Ancient Era) ([4000%20BC](4000 BC)) with a single [Settler%20%28Civ4%29](Settler) to build one's first [City%20%28Civ4%29](city) and a [Scout%20%28Civ4%29](Scout) or a [Warrior%20%28Civ4%29](Warrior), depending on a civ's [Starting%20technologies%20%28Civ4%29](starting technologies). From there, the player expands the empire while contending with rivals, utilizing the [Terrain%20%28Civ4%29](terrain), and developing [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ4](technology).
The player has several obstacles to face, modeled on political or economic problems faced by real-world nations. Apart from this they also have to handle their diplomatic relations with rivals and their continuing quest for exploration and new resources. Other important tasks include the planning of where to build new cities and progress in [Science%20%28Civ4%29](science) which reveals access to new technologies. A player has the choice of playing the part of one of a number of historical figures such as [Elizabeth%20%28Civ4%29](Elizabeth I) ([English%20%28Civ4%29](England)) to [Mao%20Zedong%20%28Civ4%29](Mao Zedong) ([Chinese%20%28Civ4%29](China)).
The scope of the game ranges from around 4000 BC to 2050 AD. Civilizations gradually advance in technology based on their own production of "research" and sometimes the work of [Great%20Person%20%28Civ4%29](Great People). Technologies range from [Writing%20%28Civ4%29](writing) and [Pottery%20%28Civ4%29](pottery) through [Paper%20%28Civ4%29](paper) and [Gunpowder%20%28Civ4%29](gunpowder) to [Genetics%20%28Civ4%29](genetic engineering) and [Fusion%20%28Civ4%29](nuclear fusion). All technologies reveal new possibilities for a civilization and enable the chance to trade with other civilizations for military aid, gold, resources or other technologies. The concept of technological growth is based on a [technology%20tree](technology tree).
Another important concept in the game, not present in the earliest games in the series, is the growth of culture, which expands one's cultural borders and can also cause one's culture to infiltrate into another civilization's, sometimes causing a city to rebel against its current owner. Culture is increased through the creation of [Wonder%20%28Civ4%29](World Wonders) (which may have bonus effects), constructing certain buildings in cities, and the spreading of a number of [Religion%20%28Civ4%29](religions) ("see below").
The game can be won through conquest (conquering all other civilizations), domination (controlling a percentage of the world's land and population), the space race (being the first to construct a [Spaceship%20%28Civ4%29](spaceship) capable of colonizing [Alpha%20Centauri%20%28star%20system%29](Alpha Centauri)), culture (increasing the cultural ratings of three different cities to "legendary" levels) and diplomacy (through votes in the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ4%29](United Nations)). Finally, if the game's clock runs out (by default in the year 2050 AD), the nation with the highest composite score is declared the winner.
"Civilization IV" was released in English, German, French, Spanish, and Italian. Fans have also made Russian and Finnish translations.
Gameplay.
Diplomacy.
Diplomacy in "Civilization IV" generally involves the trading of goods and forming strong alliances.
Different trade options require different advancements to unlock, and some things may only be traded for certain other things (e.g., per turns deals must be compensated by another per turn deal). Players may trade technologies, resources (including luxuries such as wine), maps (to reveal information about the rest of the world) and gold.
Advanced diplomacy options include the creation of trade embargoes, the promising of military aid, and the adoption of particular civics and/or a religion.
The reasoning behind diplomacy is more transparent when compared to [Civ3](Civ3): the Diplomacy window now not only displays the other leaders' attitudes (gracious, friendly, pleased, cautious, annoyed, furious), but "why" they feel that way (e.g., "-2: You refused to stop trading with our worst enemies!"). When a leader is friendly or gracious towards one's civilization, they are more likely to accept deals without unfair bargaining.
Another new feature is the new abilities of the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ4%29](United Nations). The United Nations wonder allows passing global [United%20Nations%20resolution](resolutions) (e.g., the [Nuclear%20Non-Proliferation%20Treaty](Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty)) in addition to granting access to diplomatic victory. Unlike real-world resolutions, "Civilization IV"'s resolutions are binding, except that in "[Beyond%20the%20Sword](Beyond the Sword)" you have the option of defying resolutions.
Combat.
Units no longer have separate attack and defense values. Instead, they have a base strength that is increased or decreased depending on the situation. The unit's strength also affects how much damage it can do. Prior to the 1.52 patch, the unit's damage was calculated using its current strength (which also acts as life/hit points and changes accordingly). After the patch, the damage is calculated from the base strength - this means that badly damaged modern units can still easily win battles against obsolete units. Instead of generic increases in rank, individual units gain specific types of combat experience, such as bonuses against specific types of enemies or abilities like faster movement in forests. In total, there are 41 different types of combat promotions. It is also now possible for players to examine "combat odds" before attacking, giving the player a good sense as to whether a given attack will succeed or not, factoring in all the various bonuses and penalties associated with terrain, unit capabilities, and so forth.
The 1.61 patch brought further changes, and now damaged units attack or defend with the average of their current and full strengths.
Production and trade.
The game features 32 types of resources, all of which are tradable and require an improvement (such as a mine or an oil well) to be utilized. Some resources are required for certain units, buildings, or wonders ([iron%20%28Civ4%29](iron), [copper%20%28Civ4%29](copper)); some may double the production speed of a certain wonder ([marble%20%28Civ4%29](marble), [stone%20%28Civ4%29](stone)); and some act as luxuries like in "Civ III", providing either happiness or health to all cities connected to them ([fur%20%28Civ4%29](fur), [dye%20%28Civ4%29](dye), [incense%20%28Civ4%29](incense)). There are also three types of culture goods provided by World Wonders, rather than resources, that can be traded: [Hit%20Singles%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Singles), [Hit%20Movies%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Movies) and [Hit%20Musicals%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Musicals). To trade goods or to send them to other cities within one's border, they must have some form of connection between the goods and the city. In the later game, this connection can be through ocean tiles, but in the early game, it is limited to roads and rivers. Cities on the same river are automatically connected for trading purposes, while cities on the same coastline are connected for trading purposes once the Sailing technology is researched.
Production (also - as it was in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Colonization)" - known as "Hammers," the icon that represents it) is sometimes used as a resource-term on Civilization. Each tile provides a city with a certain amount of "Hammers" which collect up in the city to produce buildings and units. Unlike in Civilization III, the player is no longer able to transfer all production from one project to another, but all production on a certain project will remain. For example, if the player is building a temple but decides to switch to a harbor, production on the harbor will have to start from scratch. However, the temple stays in the building queue and retains its previous progress, aside from some decay over time. As an ancillary rule, if one culture is building a World Wonder but another empire completes it first, the losing culture is compensated with gold proportional to the amount of Production points lost.
Religion.
The concept of separate [religion%20%28Civ4%29](religions) is new to "Civilization IV". In previous games, players could build temples and cathedrals, but the religion was just a generic feature of happiness and culture. There are now seven distinct religions in the game: [Buddhism%20%28Civ4%29](Buddhism), [Christianity%20%28Civ4%29](Christianity), [Confucianism%20%28Civ4%29](Confucianism), [Hinduism%20%28Civ4%29](Hinduism), [Islam%20%28Civ4%29](Islam), [Judaism%20%28Civ4%29](Judaism), and [Taoism%20%28Civ4%29](Taoism). There are no bonuses or traits specific to any religion, except that each religion is tied to a specific technological advance, and the four later religions (Christianity, Confucianism, Islam, and Taoism) begin with a free Missionary unit for reasons of game balance. Also, the respective cathedrals of each religion have different resources that aid in their construction, although are not necessary. If a player is the first to discover a certain religion on the tech tree, they can "found" the new religion; a city with no religion or the newest city in that civilization's empire becomes that religion's holy city. The player can then build [Monastery%20%28Civ4%29](Monasteries) and train [Missionary%20%28Civ4%29](Missionaries) to spread their religion(s) to other cities, both foreign and domestic. ("[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Colonization)" also has missionaries, spreading their version of Christianity.)
Religion factors into a number of existing game mechanics. Civs that share a common state religion will be friendly in their diplomatic dealings; conversely, civs with differing state religions will be hostile to each other. Securing an open-borders agreement, sending in missionaries and then encouraging the other civ to convert is a relatively painless way of encouraging international tranquility. The founding civ of a religion also receives an economic benefit: if that civ expends a Great Prophet at their religion's holy city, they will receive that religion's most sacred building (the [Kashi%20Vishwanath%20%28Civ4%29](Kashi Vishwanath), the [Church%20of%20the%20Nativity%20%28Civ4%29](Church of the Nativity), etc.), which provides a 1-gold-per-city tithe from every city hosting that religion. Finally, if a civ has 1) a state religion, 2) that religion's holy city and 3) that religion's sacred building, they will receive line-of-sight in every city hosting said religion, providing additional intelligence and a good way to keep an eye on foreign progress. Additionally, if one can gain an early diplomatic victory by building a [Apostolic%20Palace%20%28Civ4%29](Apostolic Palace), which also has the same features as a UN building, though nations can only be members if they have at least one city with the same religion as the Apostolic Palace (your state religion).
The new civics model of government also has a strong effect on religion: players can found a state religion, declare religious freedom, or take other actions that have profound impacts on the religious lives of their subjects. If a civilization has no declared religion, they are exempt from all described bonuses and penalties.
Civilizations and leaders.
Eight of the eighteen civilizations have two leaders. Each leader offers bonuses based on what conditions were exceptional during the historical reign of that leader, and each leader acts as differently as if they were a separate civilization and have distinct personalities. Several historic figures not used in previous Civ games are [AI](AI) leaders in "Civ4", including: [Asoka%20%28Civ4%29](Asoka), [Cyrus%20%28Civ4%29](Cyrus II), [Roosevelt%20%28Civ4%29](Franklin D. Roosevelt), [Washington%20%28Civ4%29](George Washington), [Hatshepsut%20%28Civ4%29](Hatshepsut), [Mansa%20Musa%20%28Civ4%29](Mansa Musa), [Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ4%29](Kublai Khan), [Peter%20%28Civ4%29](Peter the Great), [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ4%29](Qin Shi Huang), [Saladin%20%28Civ4%29](Saladin) (though Saladin was a hidden leader in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)"), and [Victoria%20%28Civ4%29](Queen Victoria).
All civilizations have some element of uniqueness and all leaders have certain traits based on their achievements in real life. While these are limited, they have some effect on a player's game plan. All civilizations also have a unique unit, such as the [Persian%20%28Civ4%29](Persian) [Immortal%20%28Civ4%29](Immortals) or the [Spanish%20%28Civ4%29](Spanish) [Conquistador%20%28Civ4%29](Conquistadors). Only one civilization's unique unit is non-military: the [Indian%20%28Civ4%29](Indian) [Fast%20Worker%20%28Civ4%29](Fast Worker). Below is a summary of each civilization's capital and unique features.
Technologies.
As in prior versions of "Civilization", there are technologies for the civilizations to discover. There are a total of 85 technologies in the game, up from 80 in "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)". Technologies have many uses; they can be used for trade, for the construction of new buildings and wonders, for the founding of new religions, or for the development of new forms of government. To discover modern technologies, it is first necessary to discover the technologies that lead up to it (for example, [democracy](democracy) can only be discovered after the [printing%20press](printing press)). See [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ4](List of technologies in Civ4) for complete list. See the full tech tree [http%3A//www.civfanatics.com/civ4/techtree/](here).
[Technology](Technology) development is flexible: certain technologies can be discovered in more than just one way. The game has a very useful tech tree, which can be accessed by pressing F6 on the keyboard. The tech tree displays all the techs in the game and their relations with one another. It is possible to select even unavailable techs for research. This will cause all the prerequisite techs to be researched in order. If multiple paths lead to the target tech, the civilization will pick the shortest. The final tech or group of techs, as in previous versions, are called "[Future%20Tech%20%28Civ4%29](Future Tech)", followed by a number. Instead of simply adding on to the final score, however, as in earlier games, each city receives a happiness and [health](health) bonus for each future tech discovered.
In single-player games, the discovery of each tech during the game is accompanied by a famous quotation from history which is voiced by [Leonard%20Nimoy](Leonard Nimoy) of "Star Trek" fame. The sources of the quotes range from the Buddha, [Charles%20Darwin](Charles Darwin), Brillat-Savarin, Steve Wozniak, [Henry%20Ford](Henry Ford), the Bible all the way to Lonnie Donegan, and Dan Quayle.
Scoring system.
In "Civilization IV" the leadership skills of players are compared to a subjective list of twenty of the best or worst leaders in history, similar to the list in "[Civilization%20%28original%20game%29](Civilization I)". The score is based on a number of factors, including military growth and success, technological advancement, construction of wonders and economic growth. It is shown at the end of the game.
The released version of the game abandoned "Civilization III"'s graded scale. In "Civ3", a spectacular victory on the easiest difficulty would provide the player with only a middling score, and the best titles were only awarded to players attempting the hardest difficulties. The original "Civ4", on the other hand, allows the player to obtain any score on any difficulty level. As of the v1.61 patch, the grading system has returned to the curved-by-difficulty scale.
New features.
Gameplay.
Many aspects of "Civilization IV" are new to the series (though some appear in spinoffs or ""). These include:
Official maps and scenarios.
"Sid Meier's Civilization IV" included some bonus content, released with mainly the purpose of showing modding capabilities:
Customization.
"Civilization IV" is much more open to modification than its predecessors. Game data and rules are stored in XML files, and a Software Development Kit was released in April 2006 to allow [AI](AI) customization. Major parts of the interface, map generation, and scripted events are written entirely in and can be customised.
World Builder.
The World Builder allows a player to create a map from scratch, to use an in-game situation as a starting point for a new scenario, or to simply cheat by giving himself more units, gold, buildings, better relations with leaders, improvements, cultural borders, technologies, even take over other cities by placing a border there. The terrain can be altered, and resources, military units and cities on the map can be added, removed or modified. Additionally, each civilization's technological progress as well as its diplomatic and military ties to other civilizations can be edited. The World Builder for Civ IV is in-game, in contrast to previous "Civilization" games where the Map Editor was an external application. (In [Civ2](Civ2) one could modify anything using the [Cheating%20%28Civ2%29%23Enable%20Cheat%20Menu](cheat menu).)
World Builder can also be used to create an interesting experience. In custom game mode, the user must first turn all opposing civilizations off as well as all victory conditions. Barbarians must also be deactivated. In World Builder, the user can make it so that the player only starts with a settler with no starting technologies. This allows the user to progress through all technologies for a more expanded experience of the development of civilization.
XML.
More game attributes are stored in XML files, which must be edited with an external text editor or application. Barry Caudill, a senior producer at [Firaxis%20Games](Firaxis Games), said [http%3A//www.gamecloud.com/article.php%3Farticle_id%3D1614]() in September:
"Editing these files will allow players to tweak simple game rules and change or add content. For instance, they can add new unit or building types, change the cost of wonders, or add new civilizations. Players can also change the sounds played at certain times or edit the play list for your soundtrack."
At the current time the XML processing in Windows is more permissive of minor errors than in Mac OS X. As a result, some XML files which will work on the Windows version of the game need some slight tweaking before they function on the Macintosh version.
Python.
The game uses to allow the access to many parts of the game (including the style and content of all interface screens). Python can also be used to modify random map generation and to add complex scripted events.
The version of Python present in the Windows version of the game differs from the version in Mac OS X up to and including version 10.4.7, and as a result, while most Python files for the Windows version will work on the Macintosh version, not all will.
Software Development Kit.
The "Civilization IV" Software Development Kit was released on April 13 [2006](2006) to coincide with the release of the v1.61 patch. The kit allows players to view, modify, or completely re-write the game's source code, enabling the modification of the game's [AI](AI) and other integral parts of the game. [http%3A//www.2kgames.com/civ4/downloads.htm]()
As of the first official patch for the Macintosh version (v1.61 Revision A), there is no SDK for the Macintosh version of the game. In fact the Macintosh version lacks the separate library of game related code which the PC version uses, but instead includes the code compiled into the main executable. There is as of yet no indication of whether this will change in a future patch.
Launch problems.
The release of "Civilization IV" did not go smoothly. Technical, production and shipping problems marred its product cycle.
Despite all of these problems, many newer computers run "Civilization IV" quite smoothly. The headache caused by the need to cater to many different computer configurations has caused lead designer Soren Johnson to state that he seriously considers focusing on console development. [http%3A//www.yankidank.com/article.php%3Fstory%3D20051114013930723]()
Platforms.
"Civilization IV" is available for two different platforms currently, Windows (PC) and Macintosh.
The Macintosh version is published by [Aspyr](Aspyr) and was released in June 2006. Though it lacks some of the customization features which were added to the PC version in v1.61 and lacks support for the GameSpy internet gaming system, instead being compatible with the Mac specific GameRanger, it is otherwise identical to v.1.61 of the PC version. The game was released as a Universal binary, running on both x86 and PPC based Macintoshes.
Multiplayer games involving both versions of the game work, but require the use of one of the multiplayer options other than "Internet Play" due to the incompatible formats used by the two platforms.