# Cliffs of Dover (Civ6)

The Cliffs of Dover are a two-tile passable in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". The wonder appears as a row of , and covers two or s. Each wonder tile provides 3 , 3 , 2 , and +2 to adjacent tiles (increased to +4 Appeal in ").
Like normal Cliffs, the Cliffs of Dover prevent land s from embarking/disembarking between the land and coast.
In ", discovering the Cliffs of Dover grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
Strategy.
The Cliffs of Dover wonder is made up of two land tiles, each with a yield of 3 , 3 , and 2 . (The [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tiles are not part of the wonder.) Since is often hard to generate early in the game, incorporating natural wonder tiles can provide a vital head start through the [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ6](civics tree).
Unfortunately, as with all natural wonders, the Cliffs of Dover tiles cannot be developed or improved, except by the use of a [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserve). Because of this, the Cliffs may be more of a hindrance than an asset later in the game, even more so than the various mountain and water-centric wonders! A natural wonder in the heart of a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) can spoil [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) for [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts). In general, passable wonder tiles are significantly better than an unimproved tile of any kind, but are often less productive than an ordinary tile with an improvement or a district. An important caveat, however, is that the [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori)[Marae%20%28Civ6%29](Marae) will affect any passable natural wonder, including the Cliffs, meaning these tiles will receive extra , , and later in the game.
Note that the wonder tiles can be incorporated into [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) - if a player wishes to found a Park, then it is often wise to incorporate as many wonder tiles as possible within a city.