# Colosseum (Civ6)

The Colosseum is a in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on flat land adjacent to an (with an in "").
Strategy.
Easily one of the most impactful wonders in the game, the Colosseum is invaluable to players who have many closely-packed cities to benefit from its and bonuses. Its construction is not too competitive but has a high opportunity cost due to its restriction: it needs to be built next to an Entertainment Complex, the least-used specialty in the game. The requirements are even more stringent in "Rise and Fall", as the Colosseum now needs an Arena as well - an underwhelming building, to say the least. If you have to expend on low-priority items but somehow miss out on the Colosseum itself, that is a huge setback, so [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) and [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) with [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](abilities) to hasten wonder and construction - including [Amanitore%20%28Civ6%29](Amanitore), [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin Shi Huang), and [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt), or even [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazil) and [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium) with their cheaper [Street%20Carnival%20%28Civ6%29](Street Carnival) and [Hippodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Hippodrome) - should definitely focus on building this wonder. The [Aztec%20%28Civ6%29](Aztecs) can also focus on this because they will want their unique [Tlachtli%20%28Civ6%29](Tlachtli) up anyway and they can use [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to build districts very fast, although they most likely will capture a city that contains the Colosseum from someone else.
One very notable mention is [Scottish%20%28Civ6%29](Scotland). The Colosseum has very tight synergy with the Scottish civilization ability, granting them , , and , and points. Considering from Entertainment Complexes benefit Scotland hugely, it is certainly important for them to be able to build this wonder.