# Comandante General (Civ6)

The Comandante General is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) type of available only to the [Gran%20Colombian%20%28Civ6%29](Gran Colombian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) (when led by [Sim%C3%B3n%20Bol%C3%ADvar%20%28Civ6%29](Simón Bolívar)) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It cannot be trained or purchased, but is earned for free every time the game enters a new [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era).
Strategy.
The Comandante General is essentially a more versatile version of the [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General); therefore, most of the tips given for the latter unit will also apply for the former. However, Comandantes Generales have one distinct advantage over their counterparts: their military knowledge is not limited by era! As such, retiring a Comandante General as time passes in-game is not strictly necessary. That said, the retirement effect of each Comandante General is also quite powerful, so don't hesitate to retire one if you really need the boost. The passive abilities of multiple Comandantes Generales, like those of Great Generals, do not stack with one another, but passive abilities of one Comandante General do stack with those of a Great General. If you manage to earn an early Great General, your units can boast a +1 bonus on top of a +10 Combat Strength bonus as early as the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), on top of your existing bonus of your civilization.
By earning the first Comandante General at the start of the Classical Era, Gran Colombia will earn +4 [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), making it slightly easier to avoid a going into the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). While you do not earn +2 Era Score for each subsequent Comandante General like when you earn other , they do grant +2 Era Score the first time a unit within their radius successfully scores a kill.