# Communism (government) (CTP1)

Communism is a form of [Government%20%28CTP1%29](government) in "". Its effects are average on growth, excellent on production, awful on science, bad on gold, and good on military.
Summary.
Communism exceeds all others in production for medium empires. With a core population of dedicated workers, Communism builds an industrial society from nothing. However, such sacrifice comes at a cost. Freedom is sacrificed and inequity is rampant. Pollution is common and science stagnates. 
Great Library entry.
Although the Greek philosopher Plato advocated a communal state more than 2,300 years ago, it was not until after the Industrial Revolution and its resulting massive inequities and injustices that Marx's Communism was born. The French Revolution became a breeding ground for analysis of freedom and of individual rights. Out of this came Karl Marx and Friederich Englels, two young socialists who proposed a theory of economic justice that the means of production should be taken away from individual owners and redistributed among the people in common ownership. "Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communist revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose of freedom and of individual rights. Out of this came Karl Marx and Friederich Englels, two young socialists who proposed a theory of economic justice that the means of production should be taken away from individual owners and redistributed among the people in common ownership. "Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communist revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Workingmen of all countries unite!" Despite the idealistic goals of the movement, in recent times the world has watched Communism's power crumble, leaving behind a disillusioned and impoverished people.