# Communism (government) (CTP2)

Communism is a form of [Government%20%28CTP2%29](government) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
This form of government affords high productivity and is well‐suited to medium sized empires wanting to build up their cities and military. Communist empires tend to have poor economies in comparison to others, but are excellent at waging war.
Gameplay.
Communism is one of the more productive forms of . The majority of citizens are workers who contentedly toil in fields and factories. Although the economy is good, control of the market squelches profits.
Communism is well suited to medium-sized empires that want to build up their . The strong military enjoys the support of the people, making Communist empires excellent at waging war.
Great Library entry.
Although communal living and popular government were concepts that originated in ancient times, the socio-economic injustices of Western Europe's Industrial Revolution-era class structure spawned the first earnest political movement aimed at establishing a communist state. In 1848, a Prussian sociologist and economist named Karl Marx penned, with Friedrich Engels, The Communist Manifesto, a pamphlet outlining a plan to radically alter the government of labor, markets and the state. Marx also wrote the communist movement's most important book, Das Kapital. Although communism has had many developments, the fundamental idea of a society in which property was owned by the community and all citizens shared in the enjoyment of the common wealth according to their need.
Historically, communism had a hard time taking hold. The Bolshevik Revolution of 1917, lead by Vladmir Lenin, began the transformation of Russia into a communist state. Although the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) lasted well into the 1990s, its success as a communist state was mixed. Plagued by a host of problems both internal and external, the people of the USSR endured a series of dictatorships unrivaled in their oppressiveness. After more than 70 years of attempts to establish a viable state, the communists lost power to more capitalist-minded leaders. Smaller nations have experimented with communism throughout the 20th century, but capitalist nations, most notably the United States, succeeded in subverting and dismantling almost every attempt to establish a communist government.