# Competition (Civ6)

Competitions, otherwise known as Scored Competitions, are a new addition to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the ' expansion. They resemble [International%20Project%20%28Civ5%29](International Projects) from ' in that they provide an opportunity for all [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) to compete and achieve some goal, but their specific mechanics are quite different.
Mechanics.
Competitions are started in the late game through a Resolution proposed in a Regular Session of the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress). Such Resolutions start appearing from the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) onward. Note that a competition will start only if the vote on its Resolution passes. This means that civilizations which feel that they are not prepared for certain competitions are actually able to prevent them from running, thus also preventing their competitors from gaining valuable rewards.
Each competition runs for exactly 30 [turn](turn)s, after which it ends and winners are chosen. Herein is where they differ from the International Projects of "Brave New World", which had a certain cost and would run until that cost was met.
Once a competition begins, certain game actions or events will increase a player's score for that competition. Scores are updated at the beginning of each turn, so be aware that other players' actual scores may be higher than what you see. When the time for a competition runs out, the civilization with the highest score wins the Gold Tier rewards. Additionally, all civs whose scores fall within the top 25% (including the Gold Tier winner) win the Silver Tier rewards, and all civs whose scores fall within the next highest quarter (i.e., the top 26-50%) win the Bronze Tier rewards.
Civilizations whose scores in a competition are 0 or lower receive no rewards. Civs whose scores fall within the bottom 50% receive no rewards unless there are only two competitors - in this case, the one with the higher score receives both the Gold and Silver Tier rewards while the one with the lower (positive) score receives only the Bronze Tier rewards.
Following the [June%202019%20Update%20%28Civ6%29](June 2019 Update), most competitions also award 1 [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory) point to the Gold Tier winner. [Aid%20Request%20%28Civ6%29](Aid Request), [Military%20Aid%20Request%20%28Civ6%29](Military Aid Request), and [Climate%20Accords%20%28Civ6%29](Climate Accords) competitions award 2 Diplomatic Victory points. Among the three [Nobel%20Prize%20Competitions%20%28Civ6%29](Nobel Prize Competitions), only the Nobel Peace Prize grants 1 Diplomatic Victory point upon winning.
Special Competitions.
Most competitions are proposed during Regular Sessions throughout the course of the game. There are, however, a few exceptions: