# Confederacy (Civ5)

The Confederacy is a playable [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) from the [American%20Civil%20War%20%28Civ5%29](American Civil War) [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario) in "". They are led by . Their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) is Rebel Yell, which grants their [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) a +10% combat promotion.
Strategy.
The Civil War scenario has no [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomacy), [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](religion), or [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies) and focuses heavily on military and military technology. The goal is to conquer the U.S. capital of [Washington%20%28city%29](Washington, DC) in less than 50 [turn](turn)s and to defend the Confederate capital of [Richmond](Richmond) to end the Civil War early.
As the Confederacy one should start off by moving soldiers in the south to the frontier [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities). Technological advancements are crucial and it is advised to research infantry technology first, as replacing the Confederate [Infantry%20Division%20%28Civ5%29](Infantry Divisions) with superior [Infantry%20Corps%20%28Civ5%29](Infantry Corps) will grant a great advantage against the Union units.
The United States will first attempt to conquer Fairfax, the closest Confederate city to Washington, with a combination of artillery and infantry. Since it takes 7 turns for the southern units to arrive at Fairfax, one should retreat from Fairfax if defeated and save units. Once you have reinforced the area with your Confederate troops, you should try to conquer Alexandria. Once Alexandria is conquered the Confederates can station their artillery along the coast and fire on Washington.
The Confederacy also has the option to conquer less-guarded cities beforehand in order to weaken the Union. Such cities are Harpers Ferry and Hagerstown to the north and the [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) city of Fort Monroe. [Blockade%20Runner%20%28Civ5%29](Blockade Runners) are a good asset to gain money: the Confederates can try to either first conquer Fort Monroe or bypass it and simply reach the ocean.