# Conservation (Civ6)

Conservation is a [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by having a [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) with a Breathtaking [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal).
Strategy.
Understanding nature leads to respecting it. It also helps when you don't fear it anymore, and modern technology definitely enables humans to stop fearing nature. And thus, as more and more people start looking at breathtaking waterfalls, mountains and beautiful animals in their natural habitats, the concept of conserving this nature starts to gain momentum.
Conservation is one of a series of concepts which dedicates to nature. And it benefits a society greatly, especially one which is more culture-oriented. It unlocks the [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalist), a special unit whose task is to wander the wild parts of your empire and found [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks), where your citizens may go and admire wild nature. It also gives new importance to [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), increasing the Appeal of these that have been there since the beginning of time, and teaching the [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builder) to plant new woods. Additionally, the [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls) that have protected [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) for centuries start to become more culturally than militarily significant, providing that increases based on how advanced they are. Finally, these important developments cause widespread admiration for your civilization among your diplomatic peers, and you gain 3 s.