# Conservation (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The Conservation Advance is the first step towards stemming the rising tide of . With the , can dramatically reduce pollution and counteract the pernicious effects of and .
Great Library entry.
The various industrial revolutions across the world dramatically increased human society's harmful effects on the environment. The invention of the internal combustion engine and the increase in reliance on fossil fuels took its toll on the world as well. In the 1970s, Western nations began to expand their cities at rapid paces. Centuries of relatively unmitigated industrial activity began to manifest in the form of increased waste products, smog and rivers poisoned with chemicals. A popular movement to combat the rising tide of pollution began to grow. The conservation movement succeeded in pushing legislation to regulate industry and commerce and introduced new ideas for waste management into the public conversation. In the 1980s, many cities and municipalities adopted community recycling as a viable solution to one aspect. Public outcry at the destruction of the planet's ozone layer prompted bans on the use of chlorofluorocarbons in many industrialized nations. Despite these changes, insufficiently enforced regulations, government corruption and lack of international standards allowed industry to continue its poisonous conduct. The battle over the environment raged on well into the 21st century, with substantial sums of money on both sides attempting to influence public dialogue on the best solutions for the problem of pollution.