# Consulates (Civ5)

Consulates is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It was added in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" and it replaced social policy. It is part of the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) tree.
When your empire decides to establish permanent missions in known [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-States), the effect is visible. A quiet, permanent diplomatic presence can work wonders in a city, and immediately City-State governments improve their relationship with your empire, regardless of circumstances.
Strategy.
Consulates is an incredibly powerful policy! Immediately after adopting it you will see relationship statuses gradually moving up the scale until they reach +20 (if they aren't already greater, of course). For all practical purposes, you've just gained 20 free points with all City-States - not just the ones you've already met! This means that from now on, you'll only need to gain 10 with any City-State to achieve Friendship status, and this can be done, for example, by gifting 2-3 [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) or making a single donation of 250 .
Note that the gain is not immediate - that is, you won't see the cursors jumping 20 spaces on the next turn. What happens is simply that the Neutrality point moves 20 points up the scale, and the natural fluctuation will need to do its work before you see the full 20 points of boost. Any negative actions you take will still bring down the ...but again, you will be losing it from a starting point of +20, which is much different than a starting point of 0.
In short, you should adopt this policy as early as possible unless you're seeking more immediate benefits and you have enough for gifts, in which case you should go with the other level 1 policy in the tree, [Philanthropy%20%28Civ5%29](Philanthropy).