# Correctional Facility (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Correctional Facilities serve as holding pens for convicted criminals, as well as a deterrent against future crimes. Incarceration is one of the more effective criminal deterrents, as conditions in prison systems are almost always utterly deplorable.
Great Library entry.
Before the proliferation of prison systems, the chief means of punishing serious offenders were corporal punishment, execution and banishment. Until the late 18th century, prisons were mainly for the confinement of debtors, the accused awaiting trial and convicts awaiting sentencing. Gradually, prisons became a more accepted method of punishment, and an emphasis on rehabilitation, reformation and correction started to emerge. Various philosophies as to proper methods of rehabilitation abounded throughout the 19th century. The reformatory system of late 19th century America emphasized vocational training, indeterminate sentences and rewards for good behavior and parole. This model for the modern correctional facility prevailed in the American criminal justice system of the 20th century.
Incarceration has always been seen as an effective form of punishment. The threat of prison acted as a deterrent to potential criminals, and the long-term removal of convicted offenders from society protected people as a whole. Perhaps most important, the controlled environment of prison offered opportunities for reforming criminals through such things as counseling, education and vocational training. Unfortunately, the reality of the modern correctional facility system was that often, criminals would engage in criminal activity within the confines of their prisons, and the social and economic costs of incarceration were staggeringly high.