# Cossack (Civ6)

The Cossack is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Light%20cavalry](light cavalry unit) of the [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry).
In the "" expansion, the Cossack requires 10 to train.
Strategy.
When the power of the Russian civilization is considered, the Cossack is often overshadowed by the almighty [Lavra%20%28Civ6%29](Lavra), but that doesn't mean this is a weak unit. It is a decent, although largely underused, unit, because Russia gears towards a religious and cultural victory a lot more than a domination one, and defensive units, are more often than not, overlooked. 
As a starter, at only 10 more , Cossacks have 5 more base Combat Strength than the Cavalry, not bad. Nonetheless, they truly shine on defense, as their Combat Strength is raised to 72 if there is at least one Russian tile adjacent to them. For comparison, 72 Combat Strength is as high as [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry), allowing Cossacks to stand their ground against invasions. 
On offense, they do have bonuses that help them succeed in conquest. Back in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", all mounted and armored units had the ability to move after attacking, while in "Civilization VI", only the Cossacks, sufficiently promoted recon units, and the [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnamese) [Voi%20Chi%E1%BA%BFn%20%28Civ6%29](Voi Chiến) have it, giving them a powerful advantage in the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era). Being able to harry enemies with hit-and-run attacks means it is easier for a group of Cossacks to focus down an enemy by alternating their attacks. They are not exactly the best at taking cities, but thanks to their defensive bonus, they are good at defending newly captured ones. For this reason, support your Cossack army with sufficient siege power. 
But again, you cannot view this unit in a vacuum. Russia, with their first pick of religion, can easily customize it with Crusade belief if they want to go on a full domination mode. Also, in the same vein as the aggressive [Ethiopian%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia) playstyle, it shouldn't matter if the Cossack is not the best offensive unit. The [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master Chapel), [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) and huge influx coming from Lavras and appropriate policy cards allow you to crush any enemy just from using the sheer number advantage. If Ethiopia can pull it off with their inconsequential [Oromo%20Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Oromo Cavalry), there is no reason Russia cannot with their much superior Cossacks, but of course, this purchasing strategy once again puts an emphasis on how powerful Russia's generation is thanks to their ability and the Lavra, but not on the Cossack itself.