# Cothon (Civ6)

The Cothon is a unique of the [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenician) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) and must be built on a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) or [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) adjacent to land.
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Cothon:
Strategy.
The Cothon is an extremely powerful unique district, and nearly all of the game as Phoenicia revolves around this district. It should be the first district to be built whenever a new city is founded (maybe except for your original , where you can go Government Plaza and then Cothon, in order to build the Cothon much faster). This means [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation) must be rushed, so try to scout for a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder), settle a city on the coast and improve 2 sea resources in order to trigger the that lead to this technology, all of which are very simple for Phoenicians, considering their coastal [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias). 
The Loyalty bonus of the Phoenician civilization ability encourages coastal settlements, meaning every Cothon built most likely would benefit from the major adjacency bonus to its City Center. Taking into account the cheap price of unique s, the high adjacency bonuses of these Cothons and the number of Settlers Phoenicia can churn out in the first few eras, Phoenicia is the best civilization to benefit from a Free Inquiry [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age Dedication), when every other civilizations either cannot have enough infrastructure to make it impactful or do not have s with good adjacency.
The highlight of this is that it provides 50% bonus towards Settlers. With the [Ancestral%20Hall%20%28Civ6%29](Ancestral Hall) and the Colonization policy card, the bonus towards Settlers can reach 150%; however, this is only for the city with the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza), since the bonus of the Ancestral Hall is not empire-wide. [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) should be promoted to reach [Provision%20%28Civ6%29](Provision) and assigned to the city with the Government Plaza, to turn this city to your main Settler factory. Other cities with good growth and can participate in training Settlers as well, 100% bonus from the Cothon and Colonization card should be impactful enough. These cities (without Magnus) should have decent growth to make up for constant the Population loss resulting from training Settlers en masse, but on the other hand, this is also a decent method to keep your Population in check and make the most out of your yields, since Phoenicia does not have any to let their cities grow forever.
Besides the bonus towards building Settlers, any Phoenician cities with the Cothon can churn out a massive armada of ships. With the appropriate cards, Phoenician cities can have a permanent 150% bonus towards naval units of all classes, at any moment in the game. Their fleet, although cannot be as vexatious as [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norwegian) fleet early on, will have a much more lasting impact than any other naval civilization in the game, just from the fact that no one can compete with the speed Phoenicia can crank out these units. Not to mention, naval units can heal in one turn in a city with a Cothon, rendering any attempt at naval domination against Phoenicia fruitless and generally, foolish. This district also poses a threat to the Phoenician neighbors as their ships can be built in quick order and can be sent home to heal extremely quickly. These newly conquered cities may come with their own Harbors on water-dominated maps, which will then turn into new Cothons, making them new bases for shipbuilding and quick healing. Therefore, as long as map generation is in Phoenician favor, their ships can all heal in just one turn in a conquered city with a Cothon, allowing them to roll from conquest to conquest in a hurry.