# Crosses (Col)

A cross is produced every turn by each colony in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Sid Meier's Colonization)". Like [Liberty%20bell%20%28Col%29](liberty bells), crosses can be considered a kind of [Goods%20%28Col%29](good) but cannot be bought, sold, or transported. Instead, crosses represent the religious fervor of your [Colony%20%28Col%29](colonists) and inspire faster immigration from your homeland in [Europe%20%28Col%29](Europe).
Each unit from the immigrant pool costs more [Gold%20%28Col%29](gold) to ship than the last, but crosses inspire them to come of their own accord and fund their own passage. Additional crosses lower the price of the three units in the immigrant pool until one of them offers to pay for their entire voyage and is provided free. (At first, this unit is selected randomly but you are able to choose the immigrant after [William%20Brewster%20%28Col%29](William Brewster) joins your [Continental%20Congress%20%28Col%29](Continental Congress).)
The crosses of all four nations are identical and work identically, although they notionally represent the Anglican and Puritan Churches for [English%20%28Col%29](England), the Reformed Church for the [Dutch%20%28Col%29](Netherlands), and the national Catholic churches of [French%20%28Col%29](France) and [Spanish%20%28Col%29](Spain). In each case, every colony automatically produces a single cross per turn by existing. This is doubled to 2 when a [Church%20%28Col%29](church) is constructed and increases further when units act as preachers in it. The expert form are [Firebrand%20Preachers%20%28Col%29](firebrand preachers) in the mold of Cotton Mather. These can immigrate randomly or be hired from Europe but require a [University%20%28Col%29](university) like Harvard or Yale to train in the New World. When a colony reaches size 8, its church can be expanded into a [Cathedral%20%28Col%29](cathedral). All cross production from all sources is increased by 50% after [William%20Penn%20%28Col%29](William Penn) joins your Continental Congress.
Because churches require resource and time-consuming construction (unlike [Town%20Hall%20%28Col%29](town halls)), because crosses do not produce productivity bonuses like liberty bells, and because all immigration from the mother country is blocked during the war for [Independence%20%28Col%29](independence), cross production is generally given a very low priority in most games of Colonization. A dedicated focus by an English player with a port close to deep water can, however, be very productive in some games.