# Crouching Tiger (Civ6)

The Crouching Tiger is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged unit) of the [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](Chinese) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
The Crouching Tiger can never fully replace the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman), which is also unlocked by [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery). Compared to its contemporary, it has the same Combat Strength, 10 more Ranged Strength, and 1 less , but is 40 cheaper. While the Crossbowman's greater gives it a huge advantage on offense, the Crouching Tiger is better suited for defense, especially when used in conjunction with the [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall).
Like all units with 1 , the Crouching Tiger exposes itself to retaliation each time it gets close enough to fire at an enemy, but placing it on a Great Wall segment gives it a +10 Defense Strength bonus. The [Garrison%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison) works especially well with a Crouching Tiger placed on a Great Wall segment, since it will gain 10 Combat Strength on both offense and defense. Another use for this unit is to put it in an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment), so you can enjoy its high Ranged Strength without fear of retaliation. Nevertheless, if you time your attacks right, it's possible to move Crouching Tigers within range of enemy units and fire before they can react! 50 Ranged Strength will do decent damage to all [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) units except [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights), especially if you've managed to accumulate some s beforehand.
Since the Crouching Tiger is a standalone unit, you cannot pre-build other units to upgrade into them, but its low cost allows you to quickly train some of them if you're targeted for declarations of war, especially with [Feudal%20Contract%20%28Civ6%29](Feudal Contract) (which is unlocked with [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism), a [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) China will always want to beeline). In the expansions, there shouldn't be any repercussions if you train one Crouching Tiger just for the [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), since it isn't vital to any Chinese strategies. Make sure you keep that unit around rather than deleting it, though - [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) ranged attacks take the highest Ranged Strength of any unit you have, and for China the Crouching Tiger will hold that distinction until you build a [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigate) or [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannon).