# Cultural Exchange (Civ5)

Cultural Exchange is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It was added in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)". It is part of the [Aesthetics%20%28Civ5%29](Aesthetics) tree and requires [Flourishing%20of%20the%20Arts%20%28Civ5%29](Flourishing of the Arts).
The most mature effect of developing a culture-oriented society is the ability to spread your culture to other nations in the world. When you have prepared the basis of a powerful and influential culture, it becomes to the other's benefit to partake of it. Implementing a Cultural Exchange program is the practical way to do that, and it has an immediate effect on your nation's cultural influence. 
Strategy.
This level 3 Policy is one of the most directed and powerful in the whole game - directed, because it only serves ; powerful, because a 15% increase of these three bonuses provides a potential 45% increase in total touristic output, as soon as you adopt the Policy! This is a great boon for any player pursuing [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory). 
Of course, all is not roses. Note that this is a "potential" increase - you still need to activate the relevant bonus in order to use the increase. In other words, if you don't have an [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29%23Open%20Borders](Open Borders treaty) with a nation, you can't enjoy a +15% influence on them, can you. So, you still need to work for your bonuses, but when you achieve them, they will be significantly higher than those of other players, thus allowing you to progress faster towards influencing other nations. 