# Currency (Civ6)

Currency is a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI). "It can be hurried by making a [Trade%20Route%20%28Civ6%29](Trade Route).
Strategy.
The invention of a common trade medium is the first true economic advancement of mankind. The civilization with a currency sees a veritable ocean of new possibilities opening before it, and will need an entirely new [District%20%28Civ6%29](District) - the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub), to explore these possibilities. The first building of this district, the [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market), is also unlocked. 
Currency, along with Horseback Riding, is another very important gateway tech in the early Classical Era. It unlocks the central-upper part of the tech tree, which is more economically-oriented than the lower part. Not only that, but it unlocks a crucial infrastructure for a nation's economical development - the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub district). And if your civilization is landlocked, this district is the only way to increase your trading routes! But even more importantly, the Hub means considerable increase in income, and if your civ's starting Luxuries (and their Improvements) weren't of the kind providing , you will sorely need it to prevent early bankruptcy! 
Unfortunately, It's not that easy to beeline Currency: you need to start with the upper-central part of the tree: Pottery -&gt; Writing -&gt; Currency, which isn't a particularly common research sequence. Chances are you will need other Ancient Era techs first, which will delay your research, so you'll have to make a choice: unlock important infrastructure to improve Luxuries and/or unlock military advancements, but delay boosting your raw income; or beeline for Currency to gain , but forego unlocking important infrastructure and military tech (which could leave you vulnerable to even the lowly Barbarians!). 