# Cybernetics (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Cybernetics is the discovery of robotic enhancements and replacements for the human body. This has far-reaching uses in the realm of combat. The unit takes advantage of cybernetic technology, terrorizing all that cross its path.
Great Library entry.
The term cybernetics derived from the Greek word kybernetes, meaning "pilot" or "governor." An interdisciplinary science primarily concerned with the study of communication and control theory in living organisms, machines and organizations, cybernetics investigated the techniques by which information is transformed into desired performance. It was initially a response to problems encountered in post-World War II military applications of so-called electronic brains and automated control systems.
In cybernetics, the systems of communication and control are considered the same in living organisms as well as machines. In order to achieve desired performance results consistently, a system must make available data concerning the actual results of the intended action, to act as a guide for future action. In the human body, the central nervous system coordinates such information, which is used to determine future courses of action. In machines, self-correction mechanisms serve the same purpose. This system of information processing is known as feedback, which is the fundamental concept of automation.
The world did not start seeing significant applications of cybernetics until well into the 22nd century AD. Building on advancements in neural interfaces and gene therapy, cybernetics enabled the construction of vastly complex machines that employed advanced feedback systems to perform a variety of functions. Limb replacements and body enhancements became available, as well as powerful warfare applications that combined the power of cybernetics and neural interface technology to create vehicles that could learn and respond based on an individual pilot's style. The War Walker was a prime example of this technology at work.