# Dam (Civ6)

The Dam is a in "", dedicated to improving the comfort and safety of people living along a [River%20%28Civ6%29](River). It must be built on a [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) and the River must traverse at least 2 adjacent sides of the future Dam tile.
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Dam: 
Strategy.
While an important defense (where available) for your riverside cities against floods and associated damage, Dams are vulnerable to less natural disasters, such as invading [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) and enemy soldiers [Combat%20%28Civ6%29%23Pillaging](pillaging) them, as well as air attacks by [Bomber%20%28Civ6%29](Bombers) and the like. Try to keep at least one strong military unit nearby (or even in the district), if possible backed up by fortifications and other defensive measures such as friendly air cover.
Remember, even in peacetime and with Barbarians kept safely far away, Dams are still open to hostile action. [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies) can target your Dams in [Espionage%20%28Civ6%29%23Espionage%20Missions](Breach Dam missions) where they will attempt to damage (pillage) them, causing a Flood in any affected city and leaving it open to future flooding until its Dam district can be repaired. It may be advisable to have friendly Spies on counterspy duty in at least some of your cities that have a Dam district. Note that enemy Spies with the [Satchel%20Charges%20%28Civ6%29](Satchel Charges) promotion will have a much better chance of succeeding in breaching Dams, even if they are relatively low in level. Also, Spies don't always need to target your Dams directly - for example, they can use Recruit Partisans to get rebels to devastate Dams (and other districts) for them, though this may not be quite as reliable as doing the job themselves.
Come the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), Dam districts permit construction of a [Hydroelectric%20Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Hydroelectric Dam), the first and strongest renewable source. This essentially means free for a city, which is not something not to be missed. Dams also provide a major (+2) [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) to [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones), so try to place them next to Industrial Zones to receive a considerable boost to your .
Don't forget the requirement for the same River to traverse at least two sides of a Dam's tile; it can make placement extra tricky when your city is placed near a junction of two Rivers. While rare, a city can build multiple Dams if there are multiple Rivers with eligible Floodplains tiles, though no more than one of these districts may have a Hydroelectric Dam.