# Danish (Civ5)

The Danish people (or Danes) represent a [DLC%20%28Civ5%29](DLC) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) for "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" that was released in May 2011 along with the [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario). Like the [Polynesian%20%28Civ5%29](Polynesians), they have a unique sprite for their [Embarkation%20%28Civ5%29](embarked) [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units).
Strategy.
The unique ability of the Danes makes them very well suited to a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory). Unlocking the ability to embark units with the discovery of [Optics%20%28Civ5%29](Optics) is critical, as this will grant you the power to perform quick coastal raids. The Danish ability to pillage [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](tile improvements) without using a point allows them to quickly demolish their opponents' infrastructure and heal themselves. Taken together, the Danish player has the ability to make lightning-quick strikes from the sea, tearing down enemy [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory). With the discovery of [Metal%20Casting%20%28Civ5%29](Metal Casting) and unlocking of the [Berserker%20%28Civ5%29](Berserker), the Danes become even more dangerous from the water, as well as getting their unit earlier than other civs, giving an especially early advantage. Though more specialized, the [Norwegian%20Ski%20Infantry%20%28Civ5%29](Norwegian Ski Infantry) maintain this pattern of increased mobility and can be used to great effect in their preferred territories.
Danish players should focus on developing [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies), religious beliefs, and ideological tenets that promote the growth of their military. They should also build a large number of Berserkers when available and try to keep them alive until they can be upgraded to Norwegian Ski Infantry, as the combined abilities of the two [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) result in extremely mobile late-game infantry forces that can cross most forms of rough [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) quickly.
[Paratrooper%20%28Civ5%29](Paratroopers) are also an unexpectedly interesting addition to the Danish arsenal. The airdrop ability does not verify if the Paratrooper has moved since the beginning of the round; rather, it verifies whether the unit has at least 2 points left. Normally these two checks are equivalent - not so for Danes. If you park a Paratrooper on a [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) tile and move it to land at the start of the round, that's 5 (6-1) points left, which means you can airdrop the unit across half the [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) if your territory reaches that far.