# Dar-e Mehr (Civ6)

The Dar-e Mehr is an advanced [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religious) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) introduced to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the [Civilization%20VI%20Fall%202017%20Update](Fall 2017 Update). It is built in the and requires a (or one of its replacements). It may also be purchased with .
Strategy.
The Dar-e Mehr provides increasing amounts of with the passing of time, making it advantageous to build or purchase early on. However, the narrow window of opportunity for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory) renders this worship building counter-synergistic with its intended purpose, meaning it will almost never be anyone's first choice. Additionally, repairing a [Combat%20%28Civ6%29%23Pillaging](pillaged) Dar-e Mehr nullifies all the bonuses it has accumulated throughout the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), and chances are you won't have much time to build its bonus up again. This makes the Dar-e Mehr an underwhelming choice, but somewhat better for cultural [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations), since they will usually avoid war and it can generate enough to buy expensive [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists) and [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) by the endgame.
While the Dar-e Mehr itself cannot be pillaged by [Disaster%20%28Civ6%29](disasters) in "", it offers no protection to other Holy Site buildings or to the district itself. This is one of the few cases where lower-tier buildings can be pillaged while a higher-tier building is not.