# Dead Sea (Civ6)

The Dead Sea is a two-tile passable in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". The Dead Sea appears as a on or tiles. Each Wonder tile provides 2 and 2 . Each Wonder tile also increases the of adjacent tiles by +2.
Unlike normal Lake tiles, the Dead Sea does not provide to adjacent tiles. Land also suffer a penalty when they embark/disembark from the Sea's tiles onto dry land.
In "", discovering the Dead Sea grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
In the "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)" expansion, the Dead Sea is treated as a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tile. It only provides 1 extra from settling nearby, its yields can be changed by the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus), and every wonder and improvement that has to be built on the coastline can be built next to the Dead Sea, provided that all other conditions are satisfied.
Strategy.
Each Dead Sea tile has a yield of 2 and 2 . Since Culture and Faith are often hard to generate early in the game, incorporating natural wonder tiles can provide a vital head start through the , and can help a player found a early on.
Like ordinary lake/coast tiles, the yields of the Dead Sea's tiles can be increased using certain bonuses. If the wonder tiles are owned by a city with a Lighthouse and Seaport, the yield of the tiles will increase by 1 and 2 respectively. Owning the wonder will also increase the Lake's yields by 1 and 1 . The bonus of the city-state also increases the tile yields by 1 , and a further 1 once the has been reached. [Nan%20Madol%20%28Civ6%29](Nan Madol's) bonus of +2 will apply to any [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) built next to the Dead Sea.
Unfortunately, as with all natural wonders, the Dead Sea tiles cannot be developed or improved. Because of this, natural wonders may be more of a hindrance than an asset later in the game - a natural wonder in the heart of a can spoil adjacency bonuses for Farms and districts. In general, passable wonder tiles are significantly better than an unimproved tile of any kind, but are often less productive than an ordinary tile with an improvement or a district.
Note that the wonder tiles can be incorporated into - if a player wishes to found a Park, then it is often wise to include as many wonder tiles as possible within a city.