# Democracy (advance) (CTP2)

Democracy is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Democracy is fit for peace-loving, medium-sized empires that wish to and . People tend to be content, as long as they are free to go about their business. Although they are loyal to the state, citizens in a Democracy have little tolerance for war or overrun with forces. Democracies value good , a clean environment and an honest day's [Work%20Hours%20%28CTP2%29](Work) above all.
Great Library entry.
Throughout history, democracy (from the Greek words demos, meaning "people," and kratos, meaning "rule") took three basic forms: a) direct democracy, in which the right to engage in the political process was able to be exercised by citizens as a whole, acting under procedures of majority rule; b) representative democracy, in which citizens exercised the same right through representatives chosen by and accountable to them; c) constitutional democracy, a form of representative democracy in which the powers of the majority were exercised within a structure of constitutional restraints designed to insure all citizens' enjoyment of individual and collective rights.
Democracy was born in ancient Greek city-states where the whole body of citizens acted as a legislature. This system was possible because populations of these city-states rarely exceeded 10,000 people and women and slaves had no political rights. Executive and judicial offices were filled by popular election or lottery assignment. There was no separation of executive, legislative and judicial powers. Despite these early beginnings, modern democracies did not take their cues from the brief period of Greek democracy. Age of Enlightenment-era thinkers began to infatuate themselves with the classical concepts of democracy and the republic. In 1789, the United States Congress enacted one of the most successful constitutional democracies in history with the ratifying of the U.S. Constitution. Representative democracy continued to garner adherents throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, making it one of the most successful political concepts of the modern age.