# Desert Floodplains (Civ6)

&lt;br&gt;
Desert Floodplains are a [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29%23Features](terrain feature) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are found on flat [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) near [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers).
In vanilla "Civilization VI" and "", Floodplains tiles cannot typically be developed by any means other than building Farms as they block the construction of s and [Wonders%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) (except for the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids), [Mont%20St.%20Michel%20%28Civ6%29](Mont St. Michel), [Etemenanki%20%28Civ6%29](Etemenanki), and [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra)), though [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) uniquely ignores this limitation, and [Nubian%20%28Civ6%29](Nubia) can construct [Nubian%20Pyramid%20%28Civ6%29](Nubian Pyramids) on Floodplains. Floodplains with [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus](bonus), [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](luxury), or [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resources) can be improved as normal.
Floodplains in "Gathering Storm".
"" makes a major change towards what exactly a Floodplain is. Namely, they are not an exclusive feature of Desert tiles anymore, but rather a part of the new flooding mechanic. Floodplains can now appear on [Plains%20%28Civ6%29](Plains) and [Grassland%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland) tiles as well, near a River where there are several contiguous tiles of flat land (which aren't part of some other special feature, such as a [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcano's) eruption area). They mark the area which will be affected during Flood disasters. What's more, their bonus yield has been removed (with the exception of Desert Floodplains, which still receive a base yield of +2 ), and is now a function of the flooding disaster itself. In practice, Floodplains still have the potential to become some of the most fertile lands in the game, but only after they pass through a couple of floods!
Also, all Floodplains can now support districts, but block placements of all tile improvements, except for [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and unique improvements that explicitly say they can be built on Floodplains.
Strategy.
Floodplains redeem deserts for city development, ensuring a major supply of food. Since they usually form continuous belts around a River, Farms placed there will make the best of their adjacency bonuses (once [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) and later [Replaceable%20Parts%20%28Civ6%29](Replaceable Parts) have been developed). The trade-off is that - with the exception of Egypt due to their Iteru [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](ability) - Floodplains are not acceptable tiles on which to place districts (other than the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center)) or wonders (other than those that specifically require Desert tiles, such as Petra and the Pyramids).
Following the release of "Gathering Storm", Floodplains of all kinds do not block district and wonder construction. Still, the fact that Floodplains provide plentiful in the middle of the desert is enough, especially when they happen to have or other resources on them! Use them exclusively for farming, and place your districts away from the River.
The effects of Petra do "not" apply to Floodplains.
Since Floodplains (appropriately) are always lowland, there will never be [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) on a Floodplains tile.