# Diamond Age (CTP2)

The Diamond Age is one of the [Age%20%28CTP2%29](ages) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It is the fifth and final age in the base game, coming after the [Genetic%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Genetic Age).
Great Library entry.
The Diamond Age was a period of intense scientific breakthroughs. With the perfecting of nanotechnology and further developments in genetics, human beings possessed power over their lives and their worlds in ways that seemed unfathomable in previous centuries. Human cloning and life extension enabled people to achieve immortality, as the limitations of the physical body no longer presented an obstacle. More than any other science, nanotechnology affected the lives of citizens most profoundly. Sub‐microscopic machines called nanites could manipulate molecules, seek out nuclear weapons, eat pollution, release toxins and countless other tasks. With the aid of nanites, entire cities were constructed underwater. The power of nanites manifest in two disparate realms, however, and represented both the future and the demise of human life. The Gaia Controller had the power to grant a new utopia in the world, by providing limitless supplies of resources. However, Eco‐Rangers could just as easily obliterate entire cities in a matter of minutes, leaving behind only pristine wilderness. Though some saw this as a triumph, others feared the day that human beings sought to undue six millennia of evolution, progress and creation. For all of its technological breakthroughs, the Diamond Age represented a world at a crossroads. With the power of eternal life, limitless energy, and an end to material scarcity, people were finally in control of every aspect of their own destinies. The only question that remained was whether people would live in peace or ultimately destroy themselves in the acts of nanotechnological war.