# Digger (Civ6)

The Digger is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) of the [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry).
Strategy.
The Digger is a great replacement for the Infantry, with bonuses that allow the Australians to take a more active role in global conflicts in the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) and beyond. With +15 Combat Strength on a coastal tile outside its home territory, the Digger can reinforce Australia's naval forces as they attack enemy [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) located along or near the coast, or even spearhead assaults on its own. It also provides the Australians with a strong defense against enemies who try to launch land-based assaults against their cities, which will often be located on coastal tiles to take advantage of the bonus.
The really strong aspect of Diggers, however, may be the lack of requirement. Infantry are weak units in "" because the resource they require is unlocked at [Refining%20%28Civ6%29](Refining) - and then you're one tech away from [Tank%20%28Civ6%29](Tanks), a faster and stronger unit than Infantry. Australia, though, doesn't need to take this detour, so they can beeline Replaceable Parts. Combine that with their potential output from high [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) adjacency bonuses, and there is the potential for a devastating timing push!
When facing Diggers, the best option is to outrange them or intercept them on the ocean. Diggers are tough on offense, but can easily fall prey to well-placed [Machine%20Gun%20%28Civ6%29](Machine Guns) or fighter strikes. Just remember to keep them away from your [AT%20Crew%20%28Civ6%29](AT Crews)!
Unlike "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", the site of the battle is actually the tile of the defender, not the attacker. Therefore, similar to other bonuses that grant extra Combat Strength when "fighting on" certain [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain), the Digger will receive extra Combat Strength when it attacks a unit standing on a coastal tile or on a tile outside of Australian territory, regardless of where the Digger stands. Also, the Digger will receive extra Combat Strength on defense if it gets attacked while standing on a coastal tile or outside home territory. 