# Diplomatic Favor (Civ6)

 Diplomatic Favor (sometimes called Favor for short) is a new type of special currency in "". It represents your state influence power before other [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) in the world and is used mainly in the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress).
Use.
It can be said that Diplomatic Favor and [City-state%20%28Civ6%29%23City-State%20Relations](City-State Influence) are the two sides of the same coin: diplomatic power. But while Influence (and the s that channel it) represent a simpler type of diplomatic power, Diplomatic Favor represents the high-level maneuvers used to manipulate other major leaders, and that ultimate diplomatic body, the World Congress, where these leaders battle for supremacy.
 Diplomatic Favor is used to purchase additional votes during every session of the Congress. The more Favor a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) has amassed and decides to spend, the more votes it will be able to field for a particular Resolution, Treaty, or any other necessary decision. Given the huge implications certain Resolutions may have for a civilization, the ability to swing a vote in their favor may mean the difference between victory and defeat. And ultimately, each civilization will be able to win [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory) points and head towards the brand new Diplomatic Victory!
Of course, with so much at stake, it is no wonder that leaders start trading Diplomatic Favor as they would commodities or . Thus, [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29%23Trading](trading) between leaders is the second main use for Diplomatic Favor. In fact, since the World Congress doesn't start meeting until the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), and trading may happen as soon as you meet a leader, trading Favor well precedes using it for its primary purpose!
Earning Favor.
 Diplomatic Favor is earned mainly through government activity and high-level cooperation with other game entities. "Cooperation" is the keyword here: those warmongers who think only about conquest will have far fewer opportunities to earn Favor (and in fact may discover they are "losing" it). Thus, a player who aims to influence world affairs through the World Congress should also aim to conduct (largely) peaceful policies in the interest of everyone - the true basis for a Diplomatic Victory.
There are four main sources of Diplomatic Favor, which provide a steady income:
You can also win (or lose) Diplomatic Favor by trading with other leaders, as mentioned above.
Additionally, Diplomatic Favor may be earned in a number of other special cases:
Losing Favor.
After the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202019%20Update](Antarctic Late Summer Update) you can also "lose" Diplomatic Favor each turn! There are three main situations in which this happens:
Each turn your positive and negative Diplomatic Favor sources are compared, and the difference is applied to your current Favor stockpile. It is fully possible to have a negative Favor rate, in which case you will get stuck at 0 Favor until you manage to do something to earn a lump sum (which will eventually dissipate again).
Strategy.
 Diplomatic Favor is the key to the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress). If you have no accumulated Favor, then you will have only a single vote for each item on the Congress' agenda, which all but guarantees resolutions will always go against you. Even the most callous and powerful player may find it difficult to deal with all possible damages this will inflict.
You have two main ways to get Diplomatic Favor: earning it through normal accumulation, or trading for it. Under normal circumstances earning some Diplomatic Favor per turn shouldn't be a problem; however, this changes when you reach the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) and pollution penalties kick in. Unless you're a "green maniac" (you know, using only [Hydroelectric%20Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Hydroelectric Dams), or no at all) you "will" be polluting, and this means you will get negative Favor flow. Some Suzerain bonuses and an or two will easily offset this, though.
The occupation penalty is much more difficult to counter, especially for domination-focused players. They will lose 5 Diplomatic Favor for each they control, which quickly adds up to all but impossible penalty. But even for a normal player who had won an early war and conquered a single , it may become impossible to maintain a positive Diplomatic Favor flow, especially when the carbon emissions penalty is added. So, consider carefully if you want to conquer cities at all - the price to pay may turn out to be too great, especially if you're striving for a Diplomatic Victory!
Fortunately, you can always go the second way and buy Diplomatic Favor...that is, if you maintain "some" positive relations with other leaders. On the other hand, if you're a domination monster, you should be bathing in riches, and even your most bitter enemies will agree to sell you some Diplomatic Favor for exorbitant sums of money.
And if neither accumulation or trade work, there's always a chance to win Competitions for some Favor. Try to use it before it trickles out due to negative flow, though.