# Diplomat (CTP2)

The Diplomat is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20CTP2](unit) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Whereas the [Settler%20%28CTP2%29](Settler) is crucial to the physical expansion of your empire, the Diplomat is crucial to the political and economic development of your nation. The Diplomat can Establish Embassies in foreign [City%20%28CTP2%29](cities) to expand the [Diplomacy%20%28CTP2%29](diplomatic) options available to the player. They can also hold receptions in foreign cities to increase the host nation's Regard. If no [Spy%20%28CTP2%29](Spies) are available, they can also investigate cities, though they are not as good at this as Spies.
Great Library entry.
Among the ruins of eastern Mediterranean civilizations lay the roots of diplomacy. Records detailing treaties between Mesopotamian city-states date from 2850 BC. The first diplomatic language was Akkadian (Babylonian), serving as an international tongue until Aramaic replaced it. Archaeologists discovered cuneiform tablets from the 14th century BC documenting a diplomatic correspondence, in Akkadian, between the Egyptian court and a Hittite king. The full texts of treaties between Ramses II of Egypt and Hittite leaders existed as well. China had leagues, missions and a system of diplomatic correspondence as early as the 8th century BC, and evidence of sophisticated Indian diplomacy in the 4th century BC implies it developed even earlier. The Greek system of diplomacy, however, became the model for international diplomacy in much of the West for centuries.
Greek heralds were the first diplomats, protected by the gods with immunity from harm. Hermes, messenger of the gods and patron god of heralds, was associated with the institution of diplomacy. Although, as the herald of Zeus, he gained a reputation for being persuasive and eloquent, he was also known as a dishonest knave, a stigma that became associated with diplomats well into modern times. Heralds were recognized internationally as unassailable, meaning that, even in foreign lands, they were almost never assaulted, imprisoned or otherwise harmed. To signify their inviolable status, heralds and messengers often carried an emblem, such as a message stick, and were received by their hosts with great ceremony. Because of this, heralds were often used as contacts between nations at war. They often preceded small groups of envoys to arrange safe passage. Envoys, traveling in groups to ensure loyalty, were politically prominent orators dispatched to sway foreign assemblies and leaders.
The Greeks established many diplomatic conventions, including principles of international conduct, diplomatic vocabulary, and international law that survived well into the modern age. Greek diplomats negotiated truces, treaties, alliances and neutrality, and held conventions, conferences and receptions. They laid the foundation for a multilateral diplomacy system that evolved and transformed over the next two millennia.