# Diplomatic Visibility and Gossip (Civ6)

 Diplomatic Visibility and Gossip are closely related mechanics introduced in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". Unlike prior games, which provided automatic feedback on important happenings in other civilizations, this intel must now be acquired through the Diplomatic Visibility and Gossip system.
In short, Diplomatic Visibility reflects the level of intelligence you can gather about other [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders') [Agenda%20%28Civ6%29](agendas), their military plans, and landmark achievements, while Gossip is the news and messages you receive whenever there are remarkable events occurring in other [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations).
Mechanics.
 Diplomatic Visibility, or "Access level", is a new mechanic in "Civilization VI" and represents the amount of intel you can receive about the actions of another civilization and the character of their leader. There are several levels of visibility. At the first level (None) you know very little about them; you don't know their agendas or even what influences your relationship. At higher levels of Visibility, you receive frequent updates about what they do. The "Access level" panel in the Diplomacy screen of a leader shows the following information:
The maximum Visibility level available in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) and [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Eras) is Open. The maximum level possible in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) is Secret, which can be achieved by making an with the other party. In the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) all the levels become available once the [Printing%20%28Civ6%29](Printing) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) is researched.
This table lists the information provided at each level of access.
 Gossip items are represented as coming from a source which more or less matches what provides your current Access level to the civilization. For example, if you only have a with them, the gossips will start with "Our traders heard that...", while if you have an the gossip will start with "An allied friend tells us that..."
 Diplomatic Visibility is mostly independent of your relationship with a leader. Having a Delegation or Embassy improves relationships a bit, and having a very good relationship is required to create an . Other than that, Visibility and relationship are not connected. In practice, however, it is very difficult to have high visibility on a civilization whose leader is hostile to you, especially in the beginning of the game (when you haven't researched Printing, have no [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies), and may not even be able to reach the other civilization with your [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Traders)). Unless you've tricked the other leader into letting you send them a Delegation, you will then have an Access level of None. Later in the game, Printing, a Listening Post, and a will give you up to three factors that improve Visibility even without an Embassy, and the first two will still apply if you go to war with a civilization.
 Diplomatic Visibility has military implications. If you attack a civilization, your levels of Diplomatic Visibility will be compared and if one party's level is higher, they will receive a permanent bonus in every military encounter. This is known as "Intel on enemy movements" and consists of +3 Combat Strength per level of difference in visibility (leading to a maximum bonus of +12 Combat Strength if one civilization has an access level of None and the other has an access level of Top Secret). This is even more important if you play as [Mongolian%20%28Civ6%29](Mongolia), for whom the bonus is doubled. This bonus is also active during [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat).
 Diplomatic Visibility allows you to receive Gossip, information about another player's actions, with more details being available at higher levels of visibility. For example, when you have just met a civilization, you will receive information about their declarations of war, denunciations, friendships, s, and when they do something like found a [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) or complete a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder). If you gain Limited Diplomatic Visibility, you will find out some information about their opinion of you and what [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government) they have. At the Open level, you will learn about that civilization's diplomatic agendas, their relationships with other civilizations, and when they have launched an inquisition.
Improving Diplomatic Visibility.
You must accumulate Diplomatic Visibility levels individually for each civilization. You will receive a combat bonus for having a higher level of visibility on your opponent than they have back on you. Levels may be gained by accumulating various sources of Gossip, including: