# Diplomacy (Civ6)

Diplomacy is the art of making relations with other [AI](AI) players in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It has been overhauled from previous versions of the game. It's a mechanic that evolves as [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) pass, from a state of near constant warfare in ancient times to more civil interactions in the mid- and late game.
First contact.
In order to establish relations with any major or minor [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) you have to first meet them. This is done when a [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit) of yours enters within visibility range of the other civilization's [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders) or units, or vice versa. The introductory movie for the respective [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leader) is then played, after which you are given the options to briefly make introductory interactions.
If this first contact happens when a unit from one civilization reaches the borders of the other, the "discovered" civilization is given the option to reveal one of its nearby [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) to the "discovering" one. If it happens when a unit from one civilization meets a unit from the other, both civilizations may agree to reveal their s. Or you may simply greet them politely without revealing anything (or having anything revealed to you in return).
This first interaction causes an impression (favorable or unfavorable) in the other leader, already coloring your Relationship with him/her. This is based on your decision to reveal or not reveal data on first contact, among other things.
Relationship.
Relationships between civilizations are complex. They're affected by your behavior towards the other party and by the goals of your rivals, called [Agenda%20%28Civ6%29](agendas). [Warmongering%20%28Civ6%29](Warmongering) (or ) also heavily impact relationships, and in their case your overall behavior is considered, not only individual relationships.
The portrait of each of your rivals in the upper right part of the screen has an icon that shows the state of relationship you have with them. In the Diplomacy screen, the Our Relationship panel shows a complete breakdown of the state of your relationships.
Relationship Levels.
Relationships between each pair of leaders are organized in several levels. Each factor affecting the relationship is represented by a numeric value: green numbers represent positive factors and red numbers represent negative factors. The balance between the two determines the current level of the relationship:
Improving relationships.
These actions improve your relationship with a rival:
Worsening relationships.
These actions worsen your relationship with your rivals:
Delegations.
Civilizations can send delegations to their rivals for a fee. Delegations improve relations by +3 and increase [Gossip%20%28Civ6%29](diplomatic visibility) by one level. If your relationship with a rival is worse than Neutral they will not accept your delegation/Embassy. Denouncements or war will remove the delegation.
When a rival contacts you to send you a delegation they mention some sort of gift. If you accept their delegation you receive that gift in the form of 25 (the same amount you spend to send a Delegation yourself). 
Embassies.
Once the [Diplomatic%20Service%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Service) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) is developed, all your Delegations are revoked and need to be replaced by Resident Embassies (which may lower your relationship temporarily). An Embassy is practically the same as a Trade Delegation, just updated to the modern requirements of the diplomatic community (e.g. parties, radios, secret rooms). They improve relations by +5 and increase Visibility by one level. As with delegations, if your relationship with a rival is worse than Neutral they will not accept your embassy. A denouncement will remove the Embassy or Delegation from each others in a sign of diplomatic reprisal. These can be established again if relations improve. The same happens if one of you Declares War on the other.
It costs 50 to establish an Embassy.
Agendas.
Rivals controlled by the computer have two agendas: A Leader Agenda and a Hidden Agenda. These agendas affect their behavior and their relations with other civilizations.
The Leader Agenda is based on a perceived historical trait of the real world leader. For example, [Gandhi%20%28Civ6%29](Gandhi) is seen historically as a pacifist, and in the game he follows the Peacekeeper agenda, which means that he likes leaders who don't go to war, and won't go to war easily himself. [Hojo%20Tokimune%20%28Civ6%29](Hojo Tokimune), who has the Bushido agenda, likes "a strong soul in a strong body" (a combination of strong , , and military).
The Hidden Agenda is randomly assigned. As their name suggests, Hidden Agendas are hidden, but can be discovered through [Gossip%20%28Civ6%29](gossip) or [Espionage%20%28Civ6%29](espionage).
"" introduces a third agenda, which appears as each civilization develops the [Nationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Nationalism) civic. This agenda is oriented towards reacting to other civilizations' progress towards victory (mainly aiming to deter them).
Interactions.
Civilizations can interact with each other in many ways. Most interactions are not available at the beginning of the game, and become available as you develop your [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ6](civic culture). Some interactions are only available when you have the right relationship status with the other civilization, and others are heavily influenced by it. The Diplomacy screen shows what interactions are currently available.
Trading.
The most frequent (and maybe the most important) interaction with foreign leaders is trading. You can trade with all the leaders except the ones you're at war with. The success of the trade, however, and what they are willing to give you for something depends a lot on your relationship. The better the relationship, the higher the chance to get a favorable trade, or to agree to take a diplomatic step. To negotiate a trade click the 'Make Deal' button in the diplomacy screen. Other leaders will also contact you and offer you deals.
You may trade almost anything in the game, including (either lump sums or payments per turn), in "Gathering Storm", [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](Strategic) and [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](Luxury Resources), [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works), [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) (if they and their fortifications are at full [HP](HP)), and diplomatic agreements.
The trading interface has two columns with items, the left one lists the items you have available for trading, the right one lists theirs. In the upper part is the table (whose two columns are labeled "My Offer" and "Their Offer") where all trading items are currently displayed, and right above them are the buttons which will perform the various trading actions. When you select a valid item for trading, either from your or their inventory, it moves to the table under the relevant column. You can combine items of different types to make a deal. [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works) which were recently acquired are displayed in this screen but cannot be traded.
There are several ways to start a negotiation:
Click the 'Nevermind' button at the top at any time to cancel the negotiations.
Declaring Friendship.
Leaders who have a Relationship Status of Friendly can choose to formalize this by Declaring Friendship with each other. If agreed, they proclaim to the world their friendship for 30 turns, their Relationship Status is updated to Declared Friends and they are allowed to become allies. In addition, they cannot undertake hostile actions (such as Denouncing or going to war) towards each other. There is currently a bug where a player can renew friendship with an AI indefinitely no matter how many negative relationships they have by renewing friendship as soon as it ends.
Demands.
When you have an unfriendly relationship with a civilization, you can demand concessions from them and they can demand concessions from you. This works as a trade in which you only receive from them, you give nothing in return (or vice versa). There is an implicit threat that you will attack them if they don't give what you demand. If you are much stronger than they are militarily, there is a good chance they will grant your request, but your relationship will suffer for it.
You cannot make demands from rivals with whom your relation is Neutral or better.
Discussing.
Discussing allows you to politely request a rival to change their practices towards you after you discover that they are doing something you don't like. Some examples of requests:
Click the Discuss button and select the request you wish to make. They can grant your request by making a diplomatic promise to you. A diplomatic promise lasts for 15 turns. If they do not break the promise for those 15 turns, you may expect the upsetting behavior to cease. Otherwise, you gain a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) against them, allowing you to declare a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23Formal%20War](Formal War). Once the duration of the promise is over, they can re-engage in the activity that prompted you to make your request without giving you a Casus Belli.
Conversely, when you engage in activities that upset one of your rivals, they can make a request for you to stop. They do so by demanding that you make a diplomatic promise to them. Fulfilling a promise gives you a diplomatic bonus with the leader that demanded it. Conversely, breaking a promise carries a diplomatic penalty and gives them a Casus Belli.
In "Gathering Storm", the Discuss option is replaced with the Ask for Promise option. It again activates only when one of the above-mentioned acts is detected, but asking for a promise now costs 30 . If your rival refuses to agree on the promise you ask for, the you expended will be refunded, and you will gain 25 against them. The opposite works the same way.
The promise to stop settling nearby your rival will be considered broken if you make any new settlement within 8 tiles of any city of theirs after the promise is made. It does not matter if later settlements are put down farther away from their territories than the original city which caused the complaint if the later settlements are still within the 8 tile radius around any city of the neighbor civilization. A way to overcome this without causing any diplomatic penalty is to forward-settle within the same turn. Since a civilization can only ask for a promise when their turn comes, if you forward-settle many cities in the same turn, it will trigger the promise in the same way as if you settle one. As long as you do not aggressively expand your territories after the promise has been accepted (or refused), no diplomatic penalty will be recorded.
The promise to remove military units from the borders of your rival will be considered broken if you violate their borders even "after" they declare war on you. You may therefore be compelled to defend your territories in this case if you do not want to accrue any diplomatic penalty.
Denouncing.
Denouncing a rival means openly declaring hostility towards them. Doing so immediately worsens relations with the denounced party and blocks a number of diplomatic options, like requesting Open Borders. A Denunciation lasts for 30 turns, after which its effects expire. In a gesture of mutual reprisal, Trade Delegations and Embassies are expelled from both s, and cannot be reinstated until the denunciation expires. Five turns after denouncing a rival, you gain a Formal War [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) against them.
You cannot denounce Declared Friends or Allies - you have to wait until these states expire.
Denouncing a player in "Gathering Storm" generates 25 .
Denouncing can come in handy when you prepare to go to war with someone, but do not want the diplomatic penalties associated with Surprise Wars. A Denunciation gives you a diplomatic bonus with any leader who happens to dislike the leader you denounced, which may help set the stage for a Joint War. Otherwise, denouncing brings more harm than good, unless you don't care much about what they think of you, of course.
Diplomatic Agreements.
There are a number of Agreements that leaders may enter into. All of them have limited duration of 30 turns, after which they have to be renewed. Different types of Agreements become available with the development of a specific [Civics%20%28Civ6%29](Civic), as described below. Agreements can be traded just like any other item.
Joint War.
A Joint War is a war that two leaders agree to wage simultaneously on a third one. You cannot offer Joint Wars to a leader if one of you has denounced the other. Also, at least one party must have denounced the target for 5 turns. If both signatories agree, they immediately Declare a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23Formal%20War](Formal War) against the third party, even if they have no [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) against it. You cannot use other types of Casus Belli with this agreement. You get no [Warmongering%20%28Civ6%29](Warmonger) penalties with your ally for anything you do in this war, but you do get normal penalties with all the other leaders.
Joint wars become available after developing the [Foreign%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Foreign Trade) Civic. After all, it is most important to secure partners when you go to conquer your neighbors!
In "Gathering Storm", you can declare other types of Joint Wars besides Formal Wars. This reduces accrued as expected. Still, the types available depend on at least one of the parties having the necessary [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) against your target. Thus, with civic development there will be more and more options to make Joint Wars, just as it is with normal wars.
Join Ongoing War.
In "Rise and Fall", you can also propose to Join an Ongoing War with another leader who is already at war with a third party, or propose to him or her to join a war you're engaged in. You will then be prompted to select the war you want to join.
This option becomes available at the same time as Joint War (i.e. with the [Foreign%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Foreign Trade civic)) and works much the same way.
Open Borders.
After developing the [Early%20Empire%20%28Civ6%29](Early Empire) civic, civilizations no longer allow foreign units to enter their territory freely. At this point the Open Borders agreement becomes available. Open Borders agreements allow units to enter the territory of the civilization which granted access. Foreign units use the [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](Road) network in the host civilization as if it were their own. Thanks to the free movement, your civilization's enjoys a +25% boost.
Open Borders can be requested or offered as part of a Trade deal. Both actions are "separate". Granting open borders to a rival doesn't mean that rival also grants open borders to you.
Granting Open Borders without requesting anything in return is a nice way to improve relations.
Open Borders cannot be offered to or requested from a leader who has Denounced you, or whom you have Denounced.
Research Agreement.
Civilizations who enter a Research Agreement collectively research a technology which both have unlocked but neither has acquired yet. Once the research is completed, both civilizations gain a boost for this technology. If any of them discovers the technology before the joint research is completed, the other immediately gains the boost and the agreement is terminated. The duration of research agreements depends on the combined output of both civilizations.
Research Agreements become available after researching [Scientific%20Theory%20%28Civ6%29](Scientific Theory), but only for civilizations that are either Declared Friends or allies.
Research Agreements are particularly lucrative for civilizations that lag behind technologically and befriend or ally with a more technologically advanced civilization.
While an existing Research Agreement is in progress it is not possible to start another one with the same civilization. Think carefully about which technology you want to get when making the agreement.
In "Rise and Fall", Research Agreements have been phased out and replaced with Research Alliances.
Defensive Pact.
In the latest stages of the game, after developing [Mobilization%20%28Civ6%29](Mobilization), it becomes possible for Allied players to sign Defensive Pacts. When a rival Declares war on one of the signatories, the other signatory enters the war automatically to defend the one that received the war declaration. Defensive pacts are very useful for players with a weak military and a powerful ally.
Note that Defensive Pacts don't force an ally to participate in aggressive wars. For example, if a member of an alliance declares war on a third party (instead of being the target of a declaration of war by a third party), his or her allies will not automatically declare war on the target. Also, [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](Emergencies) do not trigger defensive pacts; they are considered events outside of the normal diplomatic scope.
In "Rise and Fall", Defensive Pacts turn into an integral part of s and don't exist as separate agreements anymore. Allies now sign a Defensive Pact automatically and are obligated to come to each other's aid. Note that the above conditions about when pacts are triggered or not still apply.
Alliance.
s become possible after developing the [Civil%20Service%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Service) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic). You can only enter into an with a civilization if you and its leader are Declared Friends.
Allies automatically have Open Borders and Shared Visibility, which means you can see everything your ally's [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) see. In addition, you can make Research Agreements and Defensive Pacts. You cannot take hostile action against an ally.
In "Rise and Fall", s have been broken down into different types and present much greater possibilities. Research Agreements and Defensive Pacts are incorporated into the new mechanics.
Warfare.
As usual in a "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" game, war can be declared, guns will start firing, cities will start burning and the innocent will cry for the greed and ambition of their leaders! If they are still alive, that is. But this has some consequences...
Warmongering.
Warmongering, in the context of "Civilization VI", means going to war often. It is a characteristic of each leader that evolves throughout the game as they engage in wars more or less frequently, for a solid reason, or for pure greed and bloodlust. It is also one of the most important factors that affect relationships between leaders, and also one of the most complex. Warmongers receive penalties in their relationships with other leaders (except in the case of leaders who like warmongering, like [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander)).
Grievances in "Gathering Storm".
 replace the old warmongering system in "Gathering Storm". They much more logically implement the individual interactions between any two leaders, and how the world looks on them. Instead of individual transgressions only affecting individual relationships, and going to war affecting one's image before all other leaders, now they are combined in one whole system, in which previous transgressions between two leaders may actually justify going to war in the eyes of the world, even without using Casus Belli.
Casus Belli.
[Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23Surprise%20War](Surprise Wars) are wars you start without any warning. With a surprise war you can surprise your enemy or even backstab a peaceful neighbor. However, this will enrage other leaders against you.
However, it is possible to wage war in a more civilized way. The new [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) are situations that justify wars in the eyes of others (at least to a degree) and can be used to reduce potential diplomatic penalties.
Diplomatic Victory and the World Congress.
In "Civilization VI: Gathering Storm", the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress) reenters the game, giving leaders a new platform for interactions, giving the game a major new bonus/malus system, and enabling a civilization to achieve a brand new (although well-known from previous games) type of victory: the [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory). , a new "currency" for diplomatic endeavors, has also been introduced, and will be the main vehicle to influence voting in the World Congress and thus to aid the quest for Diplomatic Victory.