# Disaster (Civ6)

Disasters are a brand new feature in "". These are natural events in the game with (mostly) devastating consequences, which bring a whole new level of realism to the series and are the outward representation of the new [Climate%20%28Civ6%29](Climate) system.
Mechanics.
Disasters happen throughout the game completely automatically, depending on a randomized event generator. A flood may hit the [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) next to a river in one turn, then 10 turns later a nasty blizzard may come from the [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](northern tundra) and freeze some land. Players have no control over these events during the game itself (up to the point when they start affecting the climate, see below) - they can only learn how to adapt to them, minimize the damage they suffer and eventually use them to their advantage.
The areas affected by disasters depend on disaster type, as you will see below. Also, the different kinds of disasters work a bit differently, but they all have some common features:
Disaster intensity.
Disasters' rate of occurrence may be controlled in a setting in the beginning of each game. There are 5 different levels, from 0 to 4, and each subsequent level increases the general frequency and severity of disasters. However, this only sets a general framework, within which players' attitudes towards Climate change will also affect the rate and severity of disasters. Most of them (excluding [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic eruptions)) will start happening more often the more global temperature rises; this holds especially true for the more severe variants of disasters. Note that the [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty level) of a game does "not" affect the disaster rate.
Below in the table there are listed all disasters with their severity variants. The numbers in the table indicate the frequency weight of spawning the disaster (higher number indicates more frequent disaster). It is also worth noting that the chance for a [Nuclear%20accident%20%28Civ6%29](nuclear accident) listed below is the base chance when the nuclear reactor's age is 0. This chance will increase as the reactor gets older.
Disaster damages.
All disasters cause some sort of damage (else they wouldn't be called that). The different damages have different chances of occurring, again depending mostly on the disaster severity level: refer to individual disaster types for more info on that. Here is a list of potential damages:
Fertilization.
At the same time as causing devastation, most types of disasters may also "fertilize" tiles in the affected areas, adding and/or points. Fertilization adds to the base yields of the tile, enhancing them without changing the fundamental qualities of the tile. The only exception to this rule are Volcanic eruptions, which do change quality of the tile by imposing the [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil) feature on it, and destroying removable features ([Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), etc.) and even bonus resources (destroyed stuff is simply removed from the tile). Note that other yield bonuses can still be applied on such tiles (as, for example, the bonuses from nearby [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders), [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Natural wonders) or city buildings), along with bonuses from features, resources and Improvements: the end result could be quite impressive, especially in tiles hit by disasters multiple times.
Fertilization doesn't happen automatically - that is, fertilization chance is not 100%! Every time a disaster hits, fertilization chance apparently applies individually to each affected tile. A single tile may get fertilized by one, or by both types of yields by the same disaster; or it may not get any benefit. Note that only land tiles may get fertilized by disasters; so Hurricanes are potentially the least 'useful' disaster, simply because they move mostly over sea. 
It is also very important to note that [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) and [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) tiles are also valid targets for disasters, and as such for fertilization. However, since wonders can't be worked, and districts replace normal tile yields with their specific yields, they are actually unable to benefit from the fertilization itself. What happens in practice is that the game engine selects the tiles to be fertilized in the current area hit by the disaster, and if one or more of these are district tiles, the fertilization doesn't bring any benefit at all. You will notice the fertilization numbers floating above the area after the disaster, but when looking closely will notice no yield increase. Which is yet another reason not to build districts (or wonders) in known disaster areas, unless there are overwhelming reasons to do so.
The only exception to this rule are [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers), which are also the only districts retaining the original yields of their tile (mostly). So, when a disaster happens to hit a City center tile, and fertilizes is, it will receive and use the additional yields. So, you can choose the calculated risk of settling cities in disaster-prone areas, hoping to be able to shrug off the destruction while enjoying the fertilization.
The progress of [Climate%20%28Civ6%29](Climate change) past Phase IV may also cause storms and droughts to strip off yields gained from storms earlier. This process is called 'desertification'.
Types of Disasters.
There are six main classes of disasters in the game. They all have similar effects, but they appear in different biomes and each one works a bit differently. Refer to the individual articles for greater details.
There is also a seventh class of disasters, which is however not natural, but man-made: [Nuclear%20Accidents%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Accidents). These happen in a city with a [Nuclear%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Power Plant) in its [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone), whose reactor has worked for a long time without 'maintenance'. As it ages, increasingly dangerous accidents may happen, the strongest of which has the same effect as a explosion!
The Maya &amp; Gran Colombia Pack introduced the [Apocalypse%20%28Civ6%29](Apocalypse) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), which features two additional, unique disasters: Solar Flares and Comet Strikes. These are the most devastating and widespread disasters in the game, signifying an impending doom to the planet and urging the players toward victory. [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang's) [Reinforced%20Materials%20%28Civ6%29](Reinforced Materials) cannot help protect against these apocalyptic disasters.
Strategy.
Disasters are a major addition to the game, if you let them play out. And if you do not like the random factor in your carefully considered strategy, you can turn the Disaster Intensity setting to 0 or 1 (which makes the chance of disasters minuscule), and not bother reading the rest of this.
If you're still reading... Disasters are both a boon and a danger. Yes, they will destroy your stuff, yes, they will damage your cities and districts (be sure to check the areas where a disaster has hit recently, especially in the case of Storms - their path is quite unpredictable, and you might find that important improvements have been damaged or completely removed without your noticing), but yes, they will leave improved terrain yields in their wake! If you're lucky enough to get a couple of [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](Floods) in Rivers near your starting location in the first 100 or so turns, when you haven't had the chance yet to build up the landscape chock full of districts and improvements, then you will enjoy turbo-boosted Floodplains near which to settle for the rest of the game, and without any damage having been inflicted on you! The same is even more valid for [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanoes), which not only will fertilize nearby tiles, but also change their basic nature thanks to the magnificent [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil)! That one allows you to develop said tiles with Farms and Mines regardless of the initial base terrain there. This is a particularly great boon for flat Desert or Tundra tiles, where you would normally put districts: now you can improve them and actually use them to boost a nearby city.
[Storm%20%28Civ6%29](Storms) are somewhat more volatile and unpredictable in nature. Floods, Forest fires, and Volcanic eruptions you may prepare for, and count on (even the Settler lens will show you all tiles that may be hit by those); not so with Storms. They may come, or may not come; they may pass over the tiles you want fertilized, or not; they may actually fertilize them, or not. And in most cases they "will" cause destruction. Still, all deserts may give birth to Dust storms, and all tundra to Blizzards, both of which will bring nutrients and change the base yields of these otherwise barren lands. Which means that settling in these locations early in the game isn't as much a questionable move as it used to be. As for Hurricanes, they will be mostly harmless, unless you're an island nation and most of your cities are in the middle of the ocean - in this case, hurricane effects will be similar to Blizzards and Dust storms. 
Disasters mostly increase the yield of tiles; increases are a bit less common. You can expect these two yields to appear everywhere some disaster has struck. Now, can only appear after Volcanic eruptions on Volcanic Soil; this is in part why this type of disaster is the most interesting and why you should risk settling near Volcanoes. [Mount%20Vesuvius%20%28Civ6%29](Mount Vesuvius) and [Eyjafjallaj%C3%B6kull%20%28Civ6%29](Eyjafjallajökull) can even apply to affected tiles!
To minimize the damage from disaster while maximizing the benefits, you must know exactly what kinds of damage they can cause and which kinds are most problematic. In ascending order of severity, the damages caused by disasters are as follows:
Keeping the above points in mind, and taking into account the fact that you can predict only the locations of Floods and Volcano eruptions, we can see that the best strategy to avoid disaster damage while maximizing disaster benefits is to avoid building districts on Floodplains and near Volcanoes. Avoiding these areas altogether (as in not settling near them at all) is not an option: you still want to enjoy the benefits of disasters, and you can't do that if you have no access to the tiles they will fertilize. So, just settle your cities within 1-2 tiles of Floodplains and Volcanic fields, but don't build districts on them! Any district will replace base yields of the tile, and render any current or future 'fertilization' void, while at the same time subjecting the district to disaster damage. Remember: fixing or replacing improvements is easy, while repairing districts will both take more time, as well as occupy the respective Production queue, keeping that city from building useful stuff. So, just save yourself the pain and look to place your districts away from Floodplains and Volcanic fields: thus you will be able to work these tiles and improve them, enjoying their awesome yields, and at the same time you won't suffer much damage. 
Note that one of the destructive effects of Volcanic eruptions is to destroy any removable features in their area of effect. That includes not only [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests), and [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marshes), but also bonus resources such as and . That effect is pretty much assured while the Volcano is active, especially on higher Disaster intensity settings! Of course, you don't get any bonus yields from this removal (just as if you placed something on that tile), so it is generally a good idea, once a Volcano goes active, to [Builder%20%28Civ6%29%23Harvesting%20resources%20and%20removing%20features](harvest resources and remove features) on the threatened tiles. Yes, you can't really tell when the disaster will actually destroy the resources/features, and you'll lose any potential yields you could get from improving them, but can't get anything from them anyway if they're destroyed.
You should also try to keep units out of Floodplain and Volcano tiles at all times to avoid getting them damaged, or even losing them altogether. Note that on Disaster settings 3 and 4 Volcano eruptions can reach two tiles away from the Volcano itself.
Forest Fires are also quite unpredictable, simply because there are so many tiles with [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) or [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests) which could be hit! The only thing you could do is keep your units away from these features. And of course, removing the features will prevent any future fires; by definition districts cannot suffer from Forest Fires, because building a district removes the feature. The exception to this fact is [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam), whose districts do not remove features. Those who do play Vietnam must be mindful of this as a forest fire can pillage multiple districts. The [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese) [Mbanza%20%28Civ6%29](Mbanza) also preserves the Rainforest it is on, so it can also be pillaged by Forest Fires. 
As for Storms, limiting their damage is much more difficult, simply because of their fairly unpredictable nature and movement. The only possible defense is to move units into [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers) and/or [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) where they will be sheltered from storms.
There's not much you can do to avoid Population loss from any type of disaster. Trust your luck and the fact that only the strongest disasters lead to Population loss.
The [Drought%20%28Civ6%29](Drought) is a very dangerous disaster: it provides no benefits whatsoever, can strike again at unpredictable locations (though always Plains or Grassland terrain if there are no plants in the area), and it may last for as many as 10 turns, during which a large area will suffer -1 yield and the loss of -related improvements (which you will be unable to Repair until the drought ends). In extreme cases this may also cause Population loss, because the sudden drop in production may reverse growth trends and bring them into negative territory. Fortunately, the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) and [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam) will prevent the loss, so look for opportunities to build them in cities which may suffer from droughts. Another possible defense is to avoid deforestation as much as possible; this, however, will somewhat limit your strategical options in developing cities.
The [Civilization%20VI%20April%202019%20Update](Antarctic Late Summer Update) brings a major negative effect of Climate Change: the reversal of disaster beneficial effects! [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](Floods) and [Storm%20%28Civ6%29](Storms) will no longer fertilize tiles; not only that, but Storms and [Drought%20%28Civ6%29](Droughts) will start "removing" benefits gained earlier! There is absolutely nothing players can do to stop or control this, besides trying to minimize potential Drought-affected areas and trying to prevent Climate change from progressing past Phase IV.
Note that certain [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](leader or civilization abilities) render their units immune to damage from certain disasters. Examples include [Hojo%20Tokimune%20%28Civ6%29](Hojo Tokimune's) Divine Wind protecting his units from Hurricanes, and the [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russians') Mother Russia protecting their units from Blizzards (while also increasing the damage that units belonging to civilizations with whom they are at war suffer from these disasters while in their territory). Such immunities can be useful in getting the drop on an invading enemy (or an enemy you're invading). In times of peace, these immunities may allow you to get Builders and other units into position while the disaster is still ongoing, ready to effect repairs or else rebuild on affected tiles the moment the disaster passes.
The [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egyptians) are unique in that their civilization ability, Iteru, protects not only their units from the effects of a disaster (in this case floods), but also their improvements and districts.