# District (Civ6)

A District is an essential part of a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" that manifests the city's development and specialization over time. Districts are a brand new feature in "Civilization VI".
What is a district?
A district is a distinct part of a city which is found on terrain outside the city center (i.e., the city's main [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile)), and which focuses on developing some gameplay aspect in this city. Think of it as a visual manifestation of the implied parts of a city in other "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games: a military part, a scientific part, a cultural part, etc. "Civilization VI" separates these parts from the City Center, giving them autonomy and making them at the same time more powerful and more vulnerable to enemy attacks. The main city tile, where a city is originally found, still remains the focus of city life and power, but only hosts several essential buildings, such as the [Granary%20%28Civ6%29](Granary) and [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](city walls). It is nevertheless still the most important part of a city, which an attacker needs to conquer in order to take the whole city. This part is now known as the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center).
Once built, districts will confer stat yields, bonuses and unlock new possibilities for their parent city. City [Building%20%28Civ6%29](Buildings) which were before implicitly related to different gameplay aspects, are now explicitly allocated to the respective city district, are unlocked only after building that district, and will physically reside there, Your [Library%20%28Civ6%29](Library) and [University%20%28Civ6%29](University), for example, will appear in your Campus district (the -oriented part of the city), not in the main city. Similarly, once you've built an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) district, your military units will start appearing there, instead of in the City center (reinforcing the notion that troops are now trained in the special facilities there). Once you've built a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) district, you will be able to build ships there, even though your city center is away from the shore.
Types of Districts.
Most districts are "specialty districts"; that is, they fulfill a specific gameplay role, not technically related to the city's basic functioning. They are subject to population constraints, meaning that the current Population of the city will determine the maximum number of specialty districts which it may construct. Specialty districts confer a number of other bonuses to their city (for example, additional Combat Strength) and determine its eligibility for many [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policies') bonuses. Most specialty districts also have a [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project) attached to them: these projects are undertaken from the city production queue, and upon completion award a set amount of yields and points (depending on the district), and may be done as many times as desired.
There are also the [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood), [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceport), and "engineering districts" (i.e., the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct), [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam), and [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canal)), which are exceptional - despite being built outside of the City Center, they are considered an integral part of the city systems and may be built in any city where the necessary prerequisites are met, regardless of Population and how many other districts it has. Also, in "Gathering Storm", the construction of engineering districts can be rushed by [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineers).
Different districts are unlocked over time via technical or civic development. Check individual articles for specifics.
Building a district.
Districts are built via the normal production process of the city - just look in the Production list.
Basic requirements.
In order to build any district, you must first unlock it by making the necessary technological or civic advancements. Most districts are unlocked within the first three [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) of the game, but the Spaceport is only unlocked in the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era), so you should plan accordingly.
Since districts are built outside the City Center, you will need a suitable plot of land within city borders. Each District will occupy an entire plot, which you won't be able to use for anything else! In the early stages of developing a city there will be very few choices for district placement (since by necessity these are limited due to the limited number of tiles the city controls); but if the city has good output its borders will grow quickly, adding more choices.
Finally, for specialty districts you will need to increase the city's Population first. New cities won't have enough citizens to populate and work more than a single district; over time, this situation will change, and you will be able to build a new district in the city. Each 3 additional Citizens beyond the first allow the city to support one additional district (i.e., two districts with 4 Population, three districts with 7 Population, and so on).
Note that a city may have only one of each specialty district. Non-specialty districts may be built multiple times in a city, with the exception of the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) (although you may only build multiple [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams) if there are multiple rivers with [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) in the city). Also, once a district is under construction, you won't be able to move it to another tile. These two facts mean that you should really think very carefully before placing your districts, so as to maximize your future gains and prevent conflicts of interest (e.g., with wonders).
Suitable locations.
After you unlock a district and have enough Population to build it, just select it from the menu and an interface will appear in order to select a location. Valid locations will be highlighted in green. Each city can only build districts on tiles which are included in its own [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory). You cannot place districts in other cities' territory, even if these other cities belong to you and the tile in question is up to three tiles away from the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center)!
Districts can only be built on "clean" land. You cannot place a district on a Floodplains tile (except in "Gathering Storm", in which you can construct districts on all types of Floodplains), on a tile with a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](Strategic) or [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](Luxury Resource), a tile containing an or a (you may use these tiles later, after you excavate its Artifact), or a tile containing another district or [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder). The tile may contain a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus](Bonus Resource) or a removable feature ([Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest) or [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marsh)), but you won't be able to place a district there unless you've researched the technology needed to harvest/remove it. Moreover, placing a district on a tile with a resource/feature will remove it without granting you the yield bonus for removing/harvesting it, so you should either reconsider the placement or clear the tile first.
Note that hidden strategic resources do "not" block placement of districts! It is thus often the case that later, after you develop technologies which reveal them, resources will be revealed on tiles which already contain a district (or a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder)). In this case you will be granted access to that resource, even though you don't have the appropriate [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement) on it, and even though you haven't discovered the appropriate technology to access it (which is the case with when found in the sea - its access technology is more advanced than the one revealing it).
The [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) and [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park) districts may only be placed on a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tile adjacent to land; the [Aerodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Aerodrome) and [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceport) districts may only be placed on flat land (no [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills)!), and the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) and [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserve) districts cannot be placed next to the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center). Also, the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) district must be placed adjacent to both the City Center and to a tile with [River%20%28Civ6%29](River), [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake), [Oasis%20%28Civ6%29](Oasis), or [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain). The idea here is that you can decide for strategic purposes to found a [City%20%28Civ6%29](City) close (but not adjacent) to these features, and later connect the city to them by an Aqueduct to get the Fresh Water bonus. In "Gathering Storm", [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam) districts may only be placed on a Floodplains tile of the same river the city is built on, and [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canal) districts may be placed so as to connect bodies of water either with other bodies of water or with a [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center). Also, districts cannot be placed adjacent to the City Center of another city, regardless of the type of district or the ownership status of that other city. With that being said, settling a new city adjacent to a district is still allowed.
Finally, note that the native yields of the target tile will be removed, and replaced later with yields associated with the district itself (adjacency bonus yields, as well as [Specialists%20%28Civ6%29](Specialist) yields). In "Gathering Storm" bonus yields from [Disaster%20%28Civ6%29](Disasters) which happen to fall on tiles with districts will have no actual effect - that is, they will be wasted. So, take care where you place your districts! Theoretically, the best locations for districts are tiles with little or no native yield, such as [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) or [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra). But of course, you should pay attention to the [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) (current and potential) first and foremost.
The perfect location for a district will depend on many additional factors. When you choose to build a district, a special [Lens%20%28Civ6%29](lens) will appear, showing the city and its surroundings. Possible locations for the new district will be highlighted, along with some special info:
Production cost.
Cost formula.
The cost of a district is progressive, starting from a "base price" in the beginning of the game. Each technology or civic you research increases the price by the following formula:
 Cost = [1 + 9 * (max percentage of technology or civics researched)] * (base_cost)
In simpler language, the price is determined by the percentage of the total techs or civics you've researched, whichever is greater. The more techs or civics you have researched, the more expensive district construction is.
The only exception to this formula is the Spaceport, whose base cost is 1800 but will not scale. The base price for most districts is 54 , with the exception of the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) (whose base cost is 36 ), the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) and the [Diplomatic%20Quarter%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Quarter) (whose base cost is 30 ), and the [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam) and [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canal) in "", both of which have a base cost of 81 . The base cost of a unique district is half of the original district it replaces, so most of them will have a base cost of 27 , except for the [Roman%20%28Civ6%29](Roman) [Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Bath), which has a base cost of 18 .
As a result of price scaling, districts become increasingly difficult to construct as the game progresses. For old, big cities this usually isn't much of a problem (since their potential also increases gradually), but for newly established cities in the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) and beyond it becomes a great hindrance. So, it is highly important to place your districts the moment your city population and the relevant tech allows, or you risk wasting construction time unnecessarily. This means you need to plan in advance where and in what order you want to build your districts in each city. Usually, there is a generic ordering based on the phase of the game and the [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory) type you are pursuing.
District discount mechanics.
Districts apart from the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct), [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canal), [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam), [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceport), [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood), and [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserve) can be discounted 40%, with the exception of the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) and the [Diplomatic%20Quarter%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Quarter), which have a discount of 25%.
Succinctly, this mechanic can be described as follows:
In more detail, for a cost discount to apply you have to satisfy two conditions:
1. Necessary condition: "You have to complete as many specialty districts as you have researched."
Let's call the number of specialty districts you have researched (or unlocked) A, and the number of specialty districts you have finished B1, then B1 has to be greater than or equal to A.
For example: You have unlocked the ability to build the Government Plaza, the Holy Site and the Campus (A = 3), and you have built 2 Campuses (B1 = 2). In this case, you have not satisfied the necessary condition for the discount, and thus it will not apply for any specialty district you are about to build until you finish the third specialty district. Remember, B1 only counts finished specialty districts, so just putting down a base without completing it will not count.
This is the necessary condition, meaning it has to be in place for the other (second) condition to be considered, but it will not guarantee an occurrence.
2. Sufficient condition: "You will only get the discount on a certain type of district if the number of copies of that district in your empire is lower than the number of constructed districts versus unlocked districts ratio."
Don't worry if that sounds complicated at first. Let's still call the number of districts you have researched (or unlocked) A, the number of districts you have constructed (not "completed", but "constructed", meaning just putting down a district without finishing does count in this case) B2 , and the number of copies any particular district in question C. In order to know if a particular type of districts receives the discount or not, just compare the number of copies of that district, C, to the B2/A ratio, if the number of copies is lower than the ratio, then the answer is yes, the discount will apply.
For example: You have unlocked the Campus, Government Plaza, Holy Site and Commercial Hub (A = 4). You have constructed 2 Holy Sites, 2 Campuses and the Government Plaza (B2 = 5). (Just a quick reminder of our previous condition: if among these 5 constructed districts, fewer than 4 are completed, the necessary condition is not satisfied, and thus the sufficient condition will not be considered.) The B2/A ratio is 1.25. The current number of Commercial Hubs you have is C = 0, which is smaller than 1.25; therefore, when you build a Commercial Hub in any city, you will receive a 40% discount. After putting down the first Commercial Hub ("constructing"), the value of Commercial Hub will rise to 1, which is still smaller than 1.5 (now A = 4, but B2 = 6) meaning you can concurrently put down another Commercial Hub in another city (without having to wait for the first one to finish), and still get the discount. You will not get the discount when putting down the third Commercial Hub, however, as 2 is larger than 1.75 (A = 4, B2 = 7).
This is the sufficient condition, meaning it has to be satisfied in order to guarantee the desired occurrence.
Combining these two conditions using these terms, where:
If B1 ≥ A, Then if C &lt; B2/A , the discount applies.
Please note that in both conditions, the mathematical values of A, B1 , and B2 will only be updated when a technology or a civic is completed. Also, once you place a district, the cost of that district is locked in whether or not you complete that district right away, meaning the cost will not scale up with the technology and civic progression, and will not change in your favor or against you if you later satisfy or no longer uphold the discount conditions.
District and [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) construction can be accelerated via industrial [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). The receives a +1 bonus from every such city-state where you have at least 1 . All other cities which have an [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) will receive a +2 bonus from every such city-state where you have 3 s, and another +2 if you have 6 s.
Each district you construct will come with a [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](Road) improvement underneath, starting with the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center).
Purchasing and speeding up districts.
Districts, unlike buildings, generally cannot be purchased with . A few mechanics exist that allow such purchases.
Assigning these [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors) to newly founded or captured cities can greatly speed up a city's development.
District mechanics.
Each district in the game is focused on a particular gameplay aspect, most of which are also associated with a particular yield. For example, the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) is focused on , and the [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square) on . If you manage to activate their adjacency bonuses (either at district completion, or later after placing other game objects nearby), these districts will start producing the stat corresponding to their gameplay aspect ( from the Campus, from the Theater Square, etc.) even before you construct any buildings in them. These yields may be enhanced further through policy cards. For more information, see below. Furthermore, most districts will immediately start contributing points towards a specific aligned with the district's domain; for example, the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) will contribute towards a [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Scientist).
As mentioned above, most districts unlock specific [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) associated with them. In fact, even the main city is now considered a separate district: the [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument), [Granary%20%28Civ6%29](Granary) and all other buildings available to a city right from the start are actually available only because they are associated with the only district this city has for now, the City Center. So, when you build additional districts later, all buildings associated with them will also unlock.
It is also important to note that, unlike most tiles, ownership of a district cannot be swapped between cities, even if that district is within range of those other cities. Only the city that builds a district will enjoy any "ownership" benefits from it for the duration of the game, although some districts radiate indirect benefits to other nearby cities.
Also note that, once placed, a district cannot be removed in any way barring [City%20%28Civ6%29%23Razing](Razing) the city!
Buildings.
Buildings add more functionality to districts, enhancing their usefulness considerably and fulfilling their potential. This usually means more of the yield the district is focused on, but it may also mean contributing certain types of points, additional , and also additional Citizen slots where you can assign Specialists. This is particularly important for very large cities, as they won't have enough terrain slots to put their Citizens to work. Some buildings also provide [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Work) slots to house special items and artifacts produced by your civilization.
The buildings in most districts are organized in three tiers. Tier 1 is typically unlocked by the tech or civic which also unlocks the district itself (so you will be able to construct it right away); tiers 2 and 3 unlock much later with game progression. Tier 3 buildings are the most advanced, and besides a slew of bonuses usually add a requirement to the city (in "Gathering Storm" only, of course). After the [June%202019%20Update%20%28Civ6%29](June 2019 Update) the Tier 3 building of specialty districts will also enhance Specialist yields for the entire district.
District adjacency bonuses.
Most specialty districts may gain additional bonuses from surrounding features: [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) (such as [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) or [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests)), [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders), [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements), or even other districts. For example, a [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) (the research district) will get a bonus for each adjacent Mountain and Rainforest tile, because they are useful to scientists; while a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) (the religious district) will get bonuses from adjacent natural wonders and Woods, which help inspire people. These adjacency bonuses may also extend to certain buildings within the district (particularly unique buildings). You should study the individual requirements of each district and plan its placement accordingly.
Production-oriented districts.
Certain districts are focused on producing specific types of units: the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) is focused on land unit production, the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) on naval unit production, and the [Aerodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Aerodrome) on air unit production. After building these districts in a city, all relevant units will be built there in the future, not in the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center). What's more, in certain circumstances these districts are "required" for you to be able to produce units:
There are several more situations where production of a certain unit requires a district:
Buildings in production-oriented districts may confer a bonus to experience (that is, the rate at which the units earn experience) for some or all units of the particular domain produced in this city. For example, buildings in a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) will confer an experience bonus to all ships built in the city, while an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) confers a bonus to all land units (although there's a further distinction based on whether you constructed a [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks) or [Stable%20%28Civ6%29](Stable) in the district).
The final buildings of the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) and [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) districts - the [Military%20Academy%20%28Civ6%29](Military Academy) and the [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport), respectively - permit training of combined units (Corps, Armada, etc.). They also boost the speed of these combined units, so as to be cheaper and faster to build them than individual units.
Area-effect bonuses.
Finally, the effects of certain district-specific [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) extend not only to their own city, but also to all other cities whose [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) is up to 6 tiles away from the relevant District. This is the case with the [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory), the [Zoo%20%28Civ6%29](Zoo) and some other buildings. To make best use of this ability, try to make cities close to other cities' Industrial or Entertainment centers - they will greatly benefit their neighbors!
In "Gathering Storm" [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Power Plants) also produce for all cities within 6 tiles.
Note that bonuses from the same type of buildings in different districts do "not" stack. Thus, if you have two [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factories) within 6 tiles of two different [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers), both these cities will get only a +3 bonus, not +6.
Unique districts.
Some civilizations possess unique districts that replace generic ones. For example, the [Greek%20%28Civ6%29](Greek) [Acropolis%20%28Civ6%29](Acropolis) replaces the [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square). As a rule, unique districts have half the cost of standard ones, and usually follow the rules of the district they replace in regard to Population requirements to build. For example, the [German%20%28Civ6%29](German) [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29](Hansa) replaces the Industrial Zone specialty district and "does" have a Population requirement. However, the Roman Bath replaces the Aqueduct and does "not" have a Population requirement since Aqueducts do not have a Population requirement. The only exception to this rule is the [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnamese) [Th%C3%A0nh%20%28Civ6%29](Thành), which does not have a Population requirement despite the Encampment having one.
Unique districts often have more powerful - or outright different - adjacency bonuses than the standard districts they replace. Read their descriptions carefully before deciding where to place them.
When a city with a unique district changes hands, this district will be replaced by its generic equivalent unless the new owner has a unique district of the same type, in which case it will be removed instead. An Acropolis, for example, will be replaced by a Theater Square if another civilization captures a Greek city, whereas a Thành will be removed instead of being replaced by an [Ikanda%20%28Civ6%29](Ikanda) if the [Zulu%20%28Civ6%29](Zulus) capture a Vietnamese city.
From "" onward, the first copy of a unique district grants +4 [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score); however, there is a difference between two "types" of unique district:
Strategy.
The new district mechanic is a real game changer for the "Civilization" series, on several levels:
Of all these factors, the first one is maybe the most immediately problematic: each District needs to occupy a tile within the city's limits (that city, not a nearby city). This creates the immediate question of whether you have a suitable tile at all within current city limits! Although most districts aren't limited as regards their disposition, there are still rules to follow (e.g., can't place a district on a Resource tile or a tile with a non-removable feature). And then there is the secondary consideration of adjacency bonuses - most districts will have some ideal locations around the city, and others not that good. Many times bonuses for different kinds of districts will overlap, forcing you to think which one you need the most at the moment. In short, you'll find that on many occasions you will be forced to buy suitable tiles if you want to maximize your future district's effectiveness; on other occasions you will be forced to make sacrifices. In all cases planning ahead will help you immensely here - settle cities and then immediately plan which districts you want to build and where. Don't hesitate to remove [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus](Bonus Resources) (Harvesting them, of course) to make space for districts. You will be rewarded well.
Planning is also the key to the second and third problematic points: the fact is you are only able to build districts (at least specialty ones) as your current Population allows. This means in practice that you will need to think ahead about which districts and buildings you need right now, and which you can delay and build later. Here is where technological and civic progress comes into focus: although most districts get unlocked in the first three eras, there are some pretty important ones that don't come online until much later in the game. And it is often the case that, when they do unlock, you will not have enough Population to build and make use of them right away!
As most things in this game, district building depends on your overall strategy: what aspect of the game is the most important for you in general, and what your empire's deficiencies are right now. Also, tech/civic development somewhat limits what types of districts you can construct in the early stages of the game, so let's discuss this:
The first districts you can unlock are the [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) (potentially unlocked with the first tech you research), [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus), and [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) (potentially unlocked with the second tech). Around 70% of the time you'll want to build the Holy Site first, so as to attempt to Found a Religion - this is an asset which can help immensely with most victory conditions in the game. But if you decide you're not that keen on Religion (and the competition is usually too stiff, especially on higher [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty levels)), you should go with a Campus as your first district - the potential benefits are much quicker tech progression (which also unlocks more advanced military tech, helping even militaristic players) and an early [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Scientist). Only the die-hard, early-conquest players should go straight for an Encampment, which will yield an early [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General) and help them conquer a neighboring empire within the first 100 turns.
The [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) is a special case: it also unlocks early, but it's not related to specific strategies, and rather to general development of your empire. It has several benefits:
Plus, its cost is roughly half that of other districts, which makes it easy to construct even in newly-established cities! However, you can only have a single Government Plaza in your empire, so you have to carefully consider where and when construct it. You could choose to build it ASAP, which most probably will mean having it in your . This will give you early access to the extra Governor Titles, which could be priceless. However, you will forego the Loyalty boost effect, which will be useless in the Capital. Or, you could wait a bit and build it in a fringe city. where the Loyalty boost will matter, but you may have troubles constructing the Buildings of the district (which, unlike the district itself, are very expensive, and can't be bought with ) - this will have the unwanted side effect of delaying access to their awesome bonuses. But whatever you do, try to build it in such a way as to be able to build other districts around it, in order to use the standard adjacency bonus. The ideal location would be somewhere between a [River%20%28Civ6%29](River) and a [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain), in a flat area - this way you can construct a [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub), a [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus), and possibly an [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) nearby, all with their respective bonuses activated and enhanced by the Plaza.
In the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) the rest of the main districts will be unlocked (save one): the [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square), [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub), [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor), as well as the less important [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex). Of these the most important, maybe the second most important overall after the Campus and Holy Site, is the Commercial Hub - besides an easily-activated adjacency bonus, it allows an additional , which is sorely needed by everyone, and starts your progress towards [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchants) - one of the universally useful Great People in the game. However, seafaring civs will want a Harbor instead of a Commercial Hub - its benefits are even greater, especially for cities along the coast. And of course, the Theater Square will boost civic development for everyone. It is, however, especially important for players who pursue a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory) - both for the points it provides (one for each culturally-oriented ), and for the Great Work slots. They might consider building it as their second district, if they can progress fast enough.
At this early stage of the game, the Entertainment Complex can be important in two cases: for aggressive conquerors which have problems with , and for cities with [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) problems. Later, Entertainment Complexes could turn into nice boosters for 'special' city stats, such as , also cities with [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests) can use the [Zoo%20%28Civ6%29](Zoo) to get yields there. But there is one more use for these districts: a Loyalty flip! Build them in border cities with good Population, then use their [Bread%20and%20Circuses%20%28Civ6%29](Bread and Circuses) project to apply Loyalty pressure to your neighbors, and maybe eventually flip them to your civ!
The last of the "main" districts, the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone), unlocks in the early [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). Its bonuses benefit all strategies, so constructing it is a no-brainer. However, try to plan strategically and build an Industrial Zone within 6 tiles of multiple cities, so that you can use it to generate for them.
At this stage of the game you will be constructing multiple districts in each city. Here comes the next challenge: the Population constraints, which will force you to evaluate which districts you need the most, both in any given city, and in your empire as a whole. Multiple Campuses will speed up your technological progress; multiple Commercial Hubs will give you lots of to spend as you will; multiple Theater Squares will speed up your civic development. Of course, players with a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religion) will want multiple Holy Sites to fuel its expansion; although good generation has other uses as well, and Tier 3 Holy Site buildings have nice additional bonuses. And seafaring civs will want a Harbor in all their coastal cities; militaristic players, however, do not necessarily need multiple Encampments. An Encampment has two main purposes: to improve the quality of produced units (by boosting their [XP](XP) gain rate), and to produce points. While for the second point more is indeed better, it is clear that not every single city in your empire will be a unit-producing center - you could just as well designate several key cities as such and build Encampments there. You should still produce enough points to earn them regularly, if not all the time. Now, an Encampment may also serve a defensive purpose, but this is valid for all civilizations, not just militaristic ones. Consider importantly located cities across your empire, and build Encampments there for additional defense.
As you start having multiple copies of each Specialty district type your Great Person points generation will take off, along with all your other stats. But keep in mind that the late game district - the [Aerodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Aerodrome), which allows training and maintaining airplanes - is also a specialty district, depending on Population limits. It unlocks much later in the game (Modern Era), while being just as important as earlier districts! Don't allow a situation when you've built so many districts in each of your cities that you are unable to build these, and have to wait for many turns so that Population increases.
Aerodromes are important primarily for offensive players seeking a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) - it is very difficult to attain one without a good air force in the late game. Of course, airplanes for defensive purposes are also important, especially if your neighbors are aggressive and are ahead of you in the science field. However, it is possible to use ground- or sea-based anti-air to defend; they won't serve for offense, though. In short, plan ahead of time to have at least two cities capable of constructing an Aerodrome as soon as you unlock it with [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight). They should be in strategic locations near the borders of your empire, so that their airplanes could be useful.
The [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park) also unlocks late in the game, but since it is virtually a copy of the Entertainment Complex meant for coastal cities, we won't discuss it much. Suffice it to say that it is a good choice to build instead of an Entertainment Complex for empires which have water tiles and not that many land tiles.
Now, the Spaceport could be the most important district in the entire game or the least important one, depending on whether or not you are pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory). In the first case, you should take care to be able to build it as soon as you research [Rocketry%20%28Civ6%29](Rocketry), and not just a single one at that! The Spaceport is the most -intensive district in the game (it costs as much as most wonders), and you need one for all Science Victory-related [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects). Now, despite the fact that most of these projects are prerequisites for the more advanced ones (e.g., [Launch%20Moon%20Landing%20%28Civ6%29](Launch Moon Landing) requires [Launch%20Earth%20Satellite%20%28Civ6%29](Launch Earth Satellite)) and you can technically complete them all with a single Spaceport, enemy [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies) can attack your Spaceports directly, disabling them and halting your progress. Having multiple Spaceports will help with that.
Civilopedia entry.
In "Civilization VI", buildings are no longer trapped in your City Center, but may sprawl across your territory as part of districts. The map is more important than ever as you are faced with important strategic placement decisions. The Campus and Holy Site each receive special boosts from placement near Mountain tiles, but the Campus also benefits from a nearby Rainforest tile.
A city must expand its Population before it can construct multiple districts:
The Aqueduct, Neighborhoods, and Spaceports ignore this Population requirement. Districts which require a certain number of Population are specialty districts.
When a city is ready to construct something, the Choose Production button will appear. If a district can be constructed, it will appear on this menu. Click on the district to order the city to begin construction, opening the district placement lens. Here, you will be given an overview of the different yield outcomes available on the tiles surrounding your City Center, and you can better make a decision about where to place your district. This lens will also show you which tiles are unavailable, as some districts have very specific placement requirements (for example, the Encampment cannot be built adjacent to a City Center). Furthermore, all districts must be built within 3 tiles of a City Center.
Districts may be placed on top of features such as Woods or Rainforest if you have the technology to remove those features, but for a longer construction time. No District can be built on a floodplain, unless you're playing as Egypt.