# Domrey (Civ6)

The Domrey is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege unit) of the [Khmer%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Trebuchet%20%28Civ6%29](Trebuchet).
Strategy.
The Domrey is the only unique siege unit in the game, and its ability to move and shoot in the same turn without a makes it much less clunky than a typical siege unit. It also exerts [Zone%20of%20control%20%28Civ6%29](zone of control), which means that three of them can place a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) under siege unless the City Center is next to a water tile, or there is a river involved to complicate the matter. Two to three Domrey, together with some melee or cavalry units to back them up, can quickly punch through medieval city defenses, allowing their user to expand their empire through conquest in the middle stages of the game. Moreover, Domrey are unlocked with [Military%20Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineering), the for which is triggered by building an Aqueduct (which the Khmer have excellent incentives to do).
Unfortunately, this unit is not without its downsides. First and foremost, the fact that a unique siege unit belongs to a civilization without any bonuses towards war is perplexing. Despite its strength, the Khmer can't use the Domrey without shifting the focus of their empire from infrastructure to building an army, and the outcome of a war will depend heavily on who their neighbor is and how prepared they are. Additionally, since the Domrey is a siege unit, there are no [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) to aid in building an army of them any faster, and if you don't capture any cities during a war, you will have wasted a lot of on units that are borderline useless. (Siege units, being slow and suffering penalties when attacking land units, cannot be used for land defense, though Domrey are decent at naval defense.) The Khmer are a civilization that already has trouble with since they require a lot of infrastructure pieces ([Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts), etc.) to utilize their bonuses, so the Domrey is strong yet hard to use in a lot of situations. You should focus to build this unit en masse only if your neighbors are civilizations without significant defensive bonuses or have very small armies. Otherwise, if you just want a regular game aiming for a Cultural Victory with a Religious Victory backup, there isn't much justification for building a lot of Domrey.
The Domrey can be better in combination with the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel). The Khmer have strong bonuses to their output, meaning that they can utilize this building to quickly purchase multiple Domrey and a supporting army with . Pair this with [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) to make said purchases cheaper, as well as gaining extra from cities with [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors) to spend on more units. Again, whether or not you should use this unit depends heavily on the game's landscape, and random factors (such as how favorable your starting location is, who your neighbors are, how much territory you already own and whether you need any more) should be considered before you pour resources into this unit. If you have no intention of going to war, it should act only as a source of 4 Era Score.