# Dromon (Civ6)

The Dromon is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20ranged](naval ranged unit) of the [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantine) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Quadrireme%20%28Civ6%29](Quadrireme).
Strategy.
The Dromon brings its famed Greek fire back to "Civilization VI" in style. It is undoubtedly a powerful unit, but it is also the least utilized piece in the Byzantine arsenal (which really says something about Byzantium's power level), since all in all, Byzantium is still a land domination civilization, with no bonus or infrastructure supporting a naval gameplay. 
The Dromon gains 10 Ranged Strength when attacking both land and naval units, making it ideal on offensive missions against coastal empires. The Dromon also deters even the strongest naval powerhouses like [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norway) or [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenicia) from launching naval attacks. However, the most important bonus of this unit that sets it apart from the standard Quadrireme is its of 2. The Quadrireme, overall, is an underused unit that is almost never seen in combat due to its extremely limited reach (which, like all other units with a of 1, means it cannot focus fire on one enemy well and exposes itself to the front line while doing so). The Dromon removes this limitation completely. Byzantium, by virtue of this unit, has a very early version of the [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigate), which they can wreak havoc with if they choose so. The Dromon, therefore, can engage actively in combat to gain the [Bombardment%20%28Civ6%29](Bombardment) and [Rolling%20Barrage%20%28Civ6%29](Rolling Barrage) s when no one else can with their Quadriremes. This will give Byzantium a huge naval power spike in the late [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance) when the Frigate is unlocked: their Frigates will start with a few sieging s that will take much longer for other players. Again, unless you choose to hamper your own power level by playing on a water-dominated [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map), even a most powerful naval unit like the Dromon can be overlooked, since it does not synergize too well with the civilization it comes with.
Surprisingly enough, the Dromon also receives its Combat Strength against units on defense as well! For this reason, the Dromon has no problem standing toe to toe with Galleys (as the Dromon has 30 Combat Strength on defense, same as a Galley). However, you still have to watch out for unique [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galleys), the [Viking%20Longship%20%28Civ6%29](Viking Longship) and the [Bireme%20%28Civ6%29](Bireme). Although these two units are not that much stronger (35 Combat Strength), they come at half the price of the Dromon (especially when you consider [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenicia) can crank out naval units really fast with their [Cothon%20%28Civ6%29](Cothon)). One Dromon definitely cannot stand against 2 or 3 Viking Longships or Biremes at the same time. 