# Drone (SMAC)

Drones are disgruntled [Citizen%20%28SMAC%29](citizens) in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)". They are shown in red in the base menu. If drones outnumber [Talent%20%28SMAC%29](Talents) in a given [Base%20%28SMAC%29](base) when the next turn starts, the base will suffer Drone Riots, shutting down production. If the problem is not solved after one turn, the riots will intensify and the drones will smash a [Base%20facilities%20%28SMAC%29](base facility). If after yet another turn the problem is not solved, the base will revolt and join another [Factions%20%28SMAC%29](faction). If the [Free%20Drones%20%28SMAC%29](Free Drones) are in the game, a rebelling base has a higher chance of joining that faction.
One can deploy draconian methods such as [nerve%20stapling%20%28SMAC%29](nerve stapling) to halt a drone riot; such measures constitute a lesser [Atrocities%20%28SMAC%29](Atrocity), and if the UN Charter is active, other factions will impose economic sanctions against you. It also leaves the base more vulnerable to mind control by attacking [Probe%20Team%20%28SMAC%29](probe teams), and bases can become resistant to repeated nerve stapling.
Prevention.
There are various actions you can take to prevent hard working citizens from becoming unruly drones.
To determine if you are going to have a drone riot, you can cycle through all of your bases to check the status of the citizens, and/or if population growth is imminent. If this is the case, you can check if you have enough facilities and police units on hand to prevent a drone riot. The messages listing what bases have had riots will continue to be in your message box even when you reload to the previous turn before that happened. This allows you to easily tell which bases are going to be a problem, and with a click on the message, you can go to that base to make changes.