# Drug Store (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Drug Stores make available prescription drugs and over-the-counter remedies for some of the more common ailments city dwellers encounter. They increase the general health of citizens, and therefore contribute to the of a city.
Great Library entry.
The modern pharmacy, known colloquially as a drug store, became strikingly different from the apothecaries of the 17th and 18th centuries. Whereas pharmacists of that era dealt in the elixirs, spirits, salves and powders outlined in the Pharmacopoeiae of London (1618) and Paris (1639), modern pharmacists dealt with complex remedies and medicines, selected for their therapeutic value and reviewed by committees of doctors and medical experts. The Pharmacopoeia of the United States, first published in 1820, reviewed submissions by panel consisting of the U.S. Surgeon General and representatives from colleges of medicine and pharmacology, as well as state medical and pharmaceutical associations.
In 1841, the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain was founded, with intent to give pharmacists in a thoroughly scientific basis. As pharmacology became more of a scientific pursuit, new, more powerful drugs became available. Although physicians could only administer the most powerful drugs, pharmacists could prepare and dispense treatments both prescribed by a physician and those deemed acceptable for non-prescription use. These "over-the-counter" drugs usually consisted of the most common treatments for the most common ailments.