# Dutch (Civ5)

The Dutch people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
The Dutch, introduced in the "Gods &amp; Kings" expansion for "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", are an interesting civilization. First, they have a unique ability to retain half the bonus of a [Resources%20%28Civ5%29%23Luxury%20Resources](luxury resource) they control after they've traded their last copy of it. This ability is quite powerful, because a civilization rarely has more than one count of most luxuries (especially in the early-middle of the game). Trading away those single luxuries may get you valuable income when you need it, or allow you to get access to other luxuries, while still retaining sufficient . This allows for great flexibility for an entrepreneurial player.
Second, as a seafaring civilization, they have a great [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique naval unit), the [Sea%20Beggar%20%28Civ5%29](Sea Beggar). With two free Coastal Raider [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions) and the ability to heal outside of friendly waters, it is substantially more powerful than the normal [Privateer%20%28Civ5%29](Privateer) it replaces. With this unit, the Dutch may go on the offensive in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance) and [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Eras), capturing enemy [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) and turning their own ships against them!
These qualities point towards developing the Dutch as a seafaring trading civilization, although the [AI](AI) seems inclined to pursue for some reason.
Finally, they are the only civilization that can make use of the [Marsh%20%28Civ5%29](Marsh) tiles, which is possible with their unique [Polder%20%28Civ5%29](Polder). After researching [Economics%20%28Civ5%29](Economics), Polders become even more useful, especially when built on [Flood%20Plains%20%28Civ5%29](Flood Plains).