# Earth (map) (Civ6)

Earth and True Start Location Earth are two of the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](maps) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". In the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update) huge variants of Earth and TSL Earth were added.
Earth.
The Earth map replicates the geographical features of the [Earth](Earth) and its [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources). [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Natural wonders), such as the [Gal%C3%A1pagos%20Islands%20%28Civ6%29](Galápagos Islands) and [Pantanal%20%28Civ6%29](Pantanal), can be found in their real-life locations.
Starting positions.
The Earth map randomly selects starting locations. Therefore, the starting location for each civilization will be different every time a new game is created. However, there are optimal starting locations, such as [South%20America](South America). With a large amount of [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](rainforests), [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](mountains), and resources, it will allow you to quickly expand. On the other hand, starting on the island of is less than optimal, since a small island limits early game expansion.
True Start Location Earth.
Like the Earth map, the True Start Location Earth map replicates the geographical features of the Earth, and its resource locations. Natural wonders can also be found in their real-life locations. However, unlike the Earth map, the True Start Location Earth map spawns [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) on the map in their respective locations in the real world. For example, [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan) will start on the , while [Sumerian%20%28Civ6%29](Sumeria) will spawn in the present day country of .
Starting positions.
Advantageous.
The most advantageous start position is that of [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazil), which spawns right next to the [Pantanal%20%28Civ6%29](Pantanal). This allows them to reap massive amounts of and in the early game, which plays well into their preference for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory). They also start near the [Gal%C3%A1pagos%20Islands%20%28Civ6%29](Galápagos Islands), which provide massive amounts of .
The start position of the [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori) allows them to potentially colonize all of the Americas without resistance, as there are many [Europe](Europe)an civilizations compared to American ones.
[Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia) starts right at the Suez, allowing them to quickly earn the for [Foreign%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Foreign Trade) and get into quick contact with other civilizations, while also locking off [Africa](Africa) until other civs discover [Shipbuilding%20%28Civ6%29](Shipbuilding).
[Indian%20%28Civ6%29](India) spawns next to [Mount%20Everest%20%28Civ6%29](Mount Everest), which allows them to get an early [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](Pantheon) and quickly spread their [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion).
There is often little space between the starting locations of European civilizations. This provides opportunities for early conquest, such as capturing the very first [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settler) of [French%20%28Civ6%29](France) or the [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Netherlands) on Turn 1 as [German%20%28Civ6%29](Germany).
[Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Mali) starts in the southern Sahara with the whole of western Africa available to them. This means they can have several tall cities surrounded not only by [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](desert) but also by rich [Grassland%20%28Civ6%29](grassland) and, much later in the game, .
Disadvantageous.
[English%20%28Civ6%29](England), [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan), and [Scottish%20%28Civ6%29](Scotland) are all at a massive disadvantage, as they are stuck on their own tiny islands until they research Shipbuilding.
[Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia) spawns alone on their island covered in desert, making growth hard and forcing a beeline towards [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra) and/or [Outback%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Outback Stations). While they can traverse the entire world with a single naval unit without [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography), they simply lack any means of expanding beyond a few cities until the late game, especially if [Indonesian%20%28Civ6%29](Indonesia) is in the game. However, Australia is a vast and resourceful island, allowing the placement of at least 5 tall cities and possessing all strategic resources on the island, mitigating this disadvantage. If Australia could expand towards Papua New Guinea or even the southern tip of Africa, it can build a reasonably large empire.
Many civs spawn right next to each other, which can cause some problems with settling [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and potential conquest early on. These civs are:
These spawn problems get even worse if there are a lot of city-states, because many of them are also very close to players' starting positions. The [Middle%20East](Middle East), [Central%20America](Central America), Iberia, Italia, the British Isles, and Central Europe tend to be especially overloaded with city-states.
The [Aztec%20%28Civ6%29](Aztecs) spawn in the desert, adjacent to a [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain) and with a nearby [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) ([La%20Venta%20%28Civ6%29](La Venta)) preventing expansion.
The [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya) spawn in Central America is extremely bad for them. They want to found cities close to their , but the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans take up most of that area, and other civilizations and city-states that may spawn nearby further complicate their situation.
[Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norway) and [Swedish%20%28Civ6%29](Sweden) both spawn in [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) terrain, which makes expansion difficult (though Norway's civilization ability alleviates this somewhat).