# East India Company (CTP2)

The East India Company is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) that is found in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". This wonder is located in the [Dutch%20%28CTP2%29](Dutch) city of [Amsterdam](Amsterdam), but sometimes Capetown, [New%20York%20City](New York City) and a few others such as Batavia and many more depending on the [Map%20%28CTP2%29](map) that has been chosen. This wonder is similar to the [London%20Exchange%20%28CTP2%29](London Exchange) because it gives gold bonuses to your empire.
Gameplay.
The East India Company is the largest transcontinental shipping organization in the world. It uses this influence to demand higher prices for its goods and uses its considerable resources to make naval cargo units more equipped for high-seas travel.
The discovery of the renders the East India Company obsolete.
Great Library entry.
Until the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588 at the hands of the British, Spain and Portugal monopolized the trading of spices from East India. On December 31, 1600, a royal charter incorporated the English East India Company as a monopolistic trading body formed for the exploitation of trade with East and Southeast Asia and India. Although they were successful, the company met with opposition from the Dutch in the Dutch East Indies (modern-day Indonesia) and the Portuguese. In 1623, Dutch authorities executed English, Japanese and Portuguese traders in what became known as the Amboina Massacre. After that, the Dutch excluded company members from the East Indies. Earlier, in 1612, the company defeated the Portuguese in India and won trading concessions from the Mughal Empire. They traded cotton, silk, indigo and saltpeter, in addition to spices from South India. It also extended its operations to the Persian Gulf, Southeast Asia and East Asia. Eventually, it involved itself in politics, acting on behalf of British imperialistic interests in India from the early 18th century to the mid-19th century, and expanding British influence in China in the 19th century.