# Eco-Transit (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Eco-Transit is the first transit system to employ . No longer burdened with the poisonous inefficiency of conventional internal combustion engines, fuel-cell-enabled vehicles have significantly less environmental impact. A city that builds an Eco-Transit system soon sees a dramatic reduction in pollution from population.
Great Library entry.
The folly of the 20th century world's reliance on fossil fuels began to manifest itself in even greater problems than people had originally envisioned. Many nations who had come to rely almost entirely on fossil fuels for their energy requirements were beholden to the whims of a greedy cartel of major oil-producing countries. In light of this as well as the dwindling supply of fossil fuels worldwide, scientists scurried to develop alternate fuel sources. Solar energy required vast stretches of uninhabited land in order to produce enough energy to supplant conventional power plants, and solar cells were highly toxic and difficult to dispose of when damaged. The transportation and automobile industries, both major contributors to global pollution due to their reliance on internal combustion engines, were prime candidates for the development of an alternate power source. Late 20th century experiments with battery-powered electric cars were hampered by the limited capacity of conventional batteries. Electric car users had to recharge batteries at a rate considerably higher than conventional car users need to fill their tanks with gasoline. Some auto manufacturers even employed electric battery-combustion engine hybrids, which reduced, but did not eliminate harmful greenhouse gas emissions.
Fuel cells, many of which derived power from the processing of non-petroleum-based organic sources, were the answer to the inefficiency of standard batteries. Portable and reasonably inexpensive, fuel cells contained vastly more energy than rechargeable batteries and they produced little more than water as a by-product. Now that automobiles outfitted with fuel cells could perform as well or better than conventional cars, an increasingly ecology-conscious world considered them superior vehicles. Since pollution in cities had reached alarming heights, citizens began to clamor for clean, fuel-cell-equipped public transit systems. As Eco-Transit spread in personal and public transportation, pollution levels the world over grew at a vastly decreased level.