# Eden Project (CTP2)

The Eden Project (referred to in-game as "The Eden Project") is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It costs 20,000 production points to build.
Gameplay.
The Eden Project is a victory for environmentalists the world over. With its discovery, the three most in the world are destroyed, regardless of nationality. n empires gain the ability to make units, who, with their attack, are the most feared attackers in the game.
Great Library entry.
The Eden Project was one of the most controversial research projects of the Diamond Age. It was originally conceived as a theoretical exploration of the potential applications of nano-machines in cleaning up pollution, a branch of science that became known as Gaia Theory. Ecotopian scientists involved in the multi-national project, however, harbored sinister intentions for the technology. Researchers discovered the key to enabling prototypical nanites to target pollution lied in designing them to seek a narrow range of chemicals that comprised the bulk of polluting agents. Since most of these chemicals were synthetic - products of humanity rather than nature - the Ecotopians in the research group seized on the opportunity to develop a nanite that targeted and destroyed any man-made entity within a set area. This shift in focus turned the "ecology cleanser" from a beneficent tool of world climactic and environmental repair to a device of mass destruction. The Eco-Ranger raised the specter of the first truly efficient, large-scale annihilator of humanity. It was particularly attractive to ecology-minded governments because it not only produced no pollution, it actually eliminated pollution within the area of effect. Although commercial applications of Gaia Theory led to advances in pollution control systems, the destructive uses prevailed, and the arena of nanotechnological combat reached large-scale, terrifying proportions.