# Egalitarian Act (CTP2)

 | reqtech=Virtual Democracy (advance)
 | cost=20000
 | effect=
 | obsolete=
The Egalitarian Act is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It costs 20,000 production points to build.
Gameplay.
The Egalitarian Act is a major step towards equality for all people. The magnanimity of this act brings people together in celebration for an extended period. After the Egalitarian Act is enacted, any foreign city that chooses to break with its own {{LinkCTP2|Government}} automatically join the host empire.
Great Library entry.
The development of the Virtual Democracy form of government signaled a new age in human rights and equality. Even though democratic governments existed even as early as ancient Greece, they often perpetuated some kind of inequality, be it racial, social or economic. Modern democracies of the late 20th century were often rife with some of the same injustices present in the most oppressive regimes. The thrust behind developing a true democracy, free from the easily corruptible institution of representation, was an ardent desire to empower the disenfranchised masses to take control of their government. Political theorists envisioned a democracy unburdened by the pernicious influence of corporations and special interest groups on the political process. By eliminating the representatives who often compromised their commitment to the constituencies of citizens in favor of the sums of money dangled before them, a nation of individuals could determine their own futures directly. The first virtual democracies achieved this aim, powerfully utilizing technology to enabled a true "one-human-one-vote" system.
Long the dreams of human rights activists who struggled to equalize the balance of social, political and economic power in the world's democratic societies, the Egalitarian Act was a fictional document. They envisioned a bold proclamation reaffirming the equal rights for all citizens, regardless of race, age, gender, and religion. Even more, they wanted to guarantee access to information, which had become the most important commodity of the modern and genetic ages, for all people. The virtual democracy had stripped corporations of much of their political power. As a result, citizens passed sweeping changes to the tax codes and stripped corporations of many of their legal and economic favoritism, which considerably flattened the distribution of wealth. People who were once poor took advantage of their new economic power to educate themselves, purchase computers and begin participating in the new digital economy. The Egalitarian Act was the final step in solidifying equal political and social rights for everyone. On December 5th, 2031, the European Union became the first political entity to enact the Egalitarian Act. As word spread through the global community, cities around the world teetering on the brink of revolution clamored to join such a progressive nation. Leaders of oppressive governments found a new challenge from outside of their borders, and many struggled to retain control of their people.