# Egyptian (Civ5)

The Egyptian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The Egyptians have two exceptionally powerful unique components: their [Burial%20Tomb%20%28Civ5%29](Burial Tomb) and [War%20Chariot%20%28Civ5%29](War Chariot) are flexible for both an expansive [Liberty%20%28Civ5%29](Liberty) empire, or a defensive [Tradition%20%28Civ5%29](Tradition) civilization. Replacing the [Temple%20%28Civ5%29](Temple), the Burial Tomb has per-[City%20%28Civ5%29](city) and no maintenance cost - perfect for a wide empire. Regarding the War Chariot, removing the [Chariot%20Archer%20%28Civ5%29](Chariot Archer's) requirement means that early military production can proceed with reckless abandon, allowing rapid expansion against an early neighbor.
Conversely, the Egyptians' unique ability is one of the best for those who wish to build lots of [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders) in a tall Tradition empire. This bonus is versatile and can be helpful for any [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) type because there are powerful wonders for every strategy. [Aristocracy%20%28Civ5%29](Aristocracy) can further cement this advantage in wonder production, which provides a significant advantage over your competition. Having a source of in one of your cities can boost wonder production even more (if only for the first two [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras) in ""). When focusing on a few large cities with high for wonders, the other abilities provide a supporting role: the Burial Tomb helps keep the civilization very happy - an additional benefit that can help you start s more often, which in turn also helps indirectly with wonder construction.