# Electricity (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The discovery and harnessing of electricity is one of the principle achievements of the . The is a marvel of electronic entertainment, giving citizens a place to set their troubles aside.
Great Library entry.
The ancient Greeks were the first to study an electrical phenomenon in the form of static electricity. They discovered that, when rubbed with fur, amber stones attracted light objects such as feathers. The word electric comes from the Greek word "elektron," meaning amber. At the end of the 16th century, British physician William Gilbert investigated the relationship of static electricity and magnetism. American inventor and statesman Benjamin Franklin famously proved the electrical nature of lightning in his famous kite experiment of 1752 and he established the convention of using negative and positive to indicate different kinds of charge. By the mid-18th century, electrical materials were divided into two major categories: insulators, which, when rubbed, would get and keep a static surface electric charge, and conductors, mostly metals, which were able to carry away the charge from the insulator. It was also discovered that conductors could store a charge if they were insulated from their surroundings. These discoveries gave rise to the use of electric generators as a power source. The harnessing and implementation of electricity was one of the chief advancements of the modern age.