# Electronics Factory (Civ6)

The Electronics Factory is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the {{Link6|Japanese}} [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the {{Link6|Industrial Zone}} {{Link6|district}} and replaces the {{Link6|Factory}}.
Strategy.
The Electronics Factory is not much of an improvement over the standard [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory). Unlike, for example, the [Tlachtli%20%28Civ6%29](Tlachtli) (also a pretty underwhelming unique building), the Electronics Factory actually comes into play often - not because it is so powerful and unique, but because the standard Factory and the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) are so important that they are impossible to ignore. What sets it apart from its standard counterpart, however, is negligible. In [vanilla](vanilla) and ', it receives only 1 more {{Production6}}. In ', its base effect is even worse, as it is exactly the same as the Factory, only it gains an extra 5 {{Production6}} when {{Power6}}ed compared to the 3 {{Production6}} of the Factory. This is the only case in the entire game where the bonuses of a piece of unique infrastructure are all conditional, meaning you do not receive any "uniqueness" right off the bat. (Incidentally, in "Gathering Storm", [English%20%28Civ6%29](England's) standard Factory is superior in {{Production6}} to this unique building, as it provides 3 {{Production6}} like normal and a whopping 7 additional {{Production6}} when {{Power6}}ed.)
Of course, when you unlock [Electricity%20%28Civ6%29](Electricity), each copy of this building provides +4 {{Culture6}} (another conditional bonus), but 4 {{Culture6}} per city is a small bonus at the end of the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era). Not to mention, the bonus is extra {{Culture6}}, something you most likely already have an abundance of or have no difficulty generating in the first place, which makes this bonus sound so much worse than it already does. In summary, this bonus gives you a yield you already have plenty of or have no trouble generating if you choose to ({{Culture6}}), at a point too late (late Modern Era) and in an amount too small (4 per city) to be largely impactful. And since this {{Culture6}} yield is bound to a unique building, it does not get translated into {{Tourism6}} after you research [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight). Also, because the Electronics Factory's {{Production6}} bonus doesn't stack with that of other Electronics Factories within 6 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), constructing this building in every city for its {{Culture6}} bonus alone is an inefficient use of time and resources. The only case in which this practice is justifiable is when a city has [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) and his [Vertical%20Integration%20%28Civ6%29](Vertical Integration) title, or is within a 6-tile radius of such a city.
All in all, you shouldn't put too much emphasis on this building. You will still have to use it, since the Industrial Zone is an important district and the Factory is crucial when the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) comes, but you do not exactly have an edge over anybody else with their regular copies of the Factory. The extra {{Production6}} and {{Culture6}} should be considered a free bonus and not something you work towards.