# Emancipation Gate (CivBE)

The Emancipation Gate is a Planetary Wonder that's required for the [Victory%20%28CivBE%29](Emancipation Victory). The Emancipation Gate is essentially the same as [Warp%20Gate%20%28CivBE%29](Warp Gate) required for the Purity version of the [Victory%20%28CivBE%29](victory), but with a yellow color and a different required technology. It is used by the [Supremacy%20%28CivBE%29](Supremacist) culture that builds it to facilitate the liberation of their still-organic cousins on Old Earth, suffering under the consequences of the Great Mistake, by providing the technology and (military) manpower needed to systematically [Neural%20Uploading%20%28CivBE%29](neurally upload) all those left behind.
Requires: [Hypercomputing%20%28CivBE%29](Hypercomputing), Supremacy level 13
This Wonder takes up an entire hex. To build this Wonder, select Emancipation Gate from the City build list. It can be built on an owned tile within 5 distance of the city. Select a suitable hex and answer the confirmation prompt. Any previous improvements on that hex will be removed.
To win, send 1000 [Strength%20%28CivBE%29](Strength) in [Units%20%28CivBE%29](Units) through the gate. 
The Emancipation Gate can be attacked and destroyed to prevent victory. It has 300 health, 0 defense and can be garrisoned like a city (providing 20% of unit melee strength as defense). To be destroyed at least 3 attacks are required, with the last one being melee. If destroyed all progress is lost and it will need to be reconstructed for another attempt at victory.