# Emancipation Act (CTP2)

The Emancipation Act is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)" that's specifically meant for the [American%20%28CTP2%29](Americans). It makes the usage of [Slavery%20%28CTP2%29](Slavery) obsolete globally. This wonder was built by [Abraham%20Lincoln%20%28CTP2%29](Abraham Lincoln) around January 1863 in the city of [Washington%20%28city%29](Washington). It requires the [Age%20of%20Reason%20%28CTP2%29](Age of Reason) technology.
Gameplay.
The Emancipation Act is a major step forward in the struggle for human rights. With its signing, all slaves the world over are immediately converted to citizen status. The newly free citizens rise up against their former oppressors, rioting in all on the map that employ s.
Great Library entry.
Before the start of the American Civil War, Northern political leaders and abolitionists sought merely to stop the spread of slavery into the western territories that were destined for statehood. When the Southern states seceded from the Union, marking the beginning of the Civil War, Northerners saw little political purpose in tolerating slavery any further. The concept of Emancipation suddenly changed from a remote possibility to an eventuality. Union president Abraham Lincoln declared his intention to preserve the Union however he could - by preserving slavery, by destroying it, or by destroying part and preserving part. After the Battle of Antietam on September 17, 1862, he issued a proclamation calling on the revolted states to return their allegiance by the end of the year or their slaves would be declared free men. When no state returned, he issued the declaration on Jan. 1, 1863.
Some historians, and, doubtless some of Lincoln's contemporaries, questioned the validity of the Emancipation Proclamation. As president, Lincoln lacked the power to issue such a declaration, and, as commander-in-chief of U.S. Armed Forces, he could only issue directions regarding the territory within his lines. Because the Emancipation Proclamation applied only to territory outside his lines, it was a dubious declaration, lacking any real force. However, it was significant as a statement of policy to guide the army and as a declaration of freedom that would take effect as the lines advanced.
The Emancipation Proclamation inadvertently lifted the American Civil War to the level of a crusade for human freedom. It also had many effects on the direction and eventual outcome of the war. From an international perspective, the Civil War was an unfortunate and calamitous event, as it locked up the world's main source of cotton. In fact, the Confederate government had expected the English and French governments to intervene in the war. The transformation of the war into a crusade against slavery precluded any European intervention. The Emancipation Proclamation also allowed the Union to recruit black soldiers. Nearly 180,000 black men enlisted during the remainder of the war, significantly bolstering Northern ranks and enabling the Union to crush the rebellion. 
In February 1865, two months before the war ended, Lincoln told portrait painter Francis B. Carpenter that the Emancipation Proclamation was "the central act of my administration, and the greatest event of the nineteenth century." Lincoln and his compatriots had dealt a deathblow to slavery in the United States, and in December 1865, the Thirteenth Amendment was ratified.