# Embarkation (Civ5)

Embarkation is a [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" and its expansions. Land [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) can move into water, or embark onto water tiles in boats, once [Optics%20%28Civ5%29](Optics) has been discovered. Initially, embarked units can only move through [Coast%20%28Civ5%29](Coast) tiles, but discovering [Astronomy%20%28Civ5%29](Astronomy) allows them to move through Ocean tiles and increases embarked by 1 as well. (Early [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](naval units), such as [Trireme%20%28Civ5%29](Triremes) and [Galleass%20%28Civ5%29](Galleasses), cannot enter Ocean tiles even after Astronomy is discovered.) Discovering [Steam%20Power%20%28Civ5%29](Steam Power) increases embarked by 1. [Polynesian%20%28Civ5%29](Polynesian) units are an exception to these rules: their [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization's) [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) allows them to embark and enter [Ocean%20%28Civ5%29](Ocean) tiles as soon as the game begins.
An embarked unit has much less offensive power than it does on land. If it is a melee unit, it can attack from the water but suffers a 50% Combat Strength penalty (which can be negated if the unit has the Amphibious promotion). If it is a ranged unit, it needs to disembark to perform a ranged attack. Both embarking and disembarking expend all of a unit's remaining points for the [turn](turn) (except for [Danish%20%28Civ5%29](Danish) units).
An embarked unit can defend itself with limited defense, which increases when advancing to a new [Era%20%28Civ5%29](era). Any naval unit can attack an embarked unit in the same manner as an enemy naval unit, but cannot move again until the next turn when doing so. [City%20%28Civ5%29](Cities) and ranged units can also easily destroy embarked land units by bombarding them. In effect, embarked civilian and [Military%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](military units) are considered to be the same type of unit and thus cannot be stacked, though naval units can stack with embarked units. [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ5%29](Great Admirals) can also stack with both embarked units and naval units.
If a unit is not in friendly [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) when Optics is discovered, it will not get the Embarkation promotion. Returning the unit to friendly territory, or to the territory of a [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-state) with Friend status or higher, will give the promotion at the start of the next turn. The one exception is for [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarian) units that join the [German%20%28Civ5%29](German) army, provided Germany has discovered Optics. They will have the ability to embark immediately, no matter where they are recruited.