# Emergency (Civ6)

Emergencies are a feature added to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the "" expansion pack. They propose a specific mission, targeting a specific nation (usually one which has just done something serious in the game, such as conquering a city). All nations which agree to undertake the mission are bound to succeed or fail within a specific period of time. In case of success they will divide a large pot of {{Gold6}} and get a permanent bonus of some kind. In case of failure the target nation will receive a bonus itself.
Emergencies in "Gathering Storm".
In "", Emergencies have been incorporated into the new [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress mechanic). In order for an Emergency to activate now, it has to be put to a vote through a special session of the Congress. If the proposal receives enough votes to pass, the Emergency goes into effect immediately.
Since the World Congress only starts meeting in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), Emergencies are now possible only from that Era on.
Participating in Emergencies.
Not all nations may participate in all Emergencies! In order for a nation to be invited to participate in the first place, it must 'know' the Emergency reason: for example, in the case of a City-State Emergency, it needs to have met this [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-state). Next, the nation cannot be an Ally to the Emergency's Target. And finally, the nation has to vote in favor of the Emergency during the Special Session - if it votes against it, it won't participate, even if the Emergency resolution passes.
All nations which vote for a particular Emergency (and if the Resolution passes) will share Visibility and have Open Borders with each other; of course, all of them will go to war with the Target (unless it is a Religious Emergency). Note that this action won't accrue {{GrievancesIcon6}} Grievances, because it is considered an effort of the 'international community', and as such - inherently justified. However, if participants take cities other than these targeted by the Emergency, this will cost {{GrievancesIcon6}} Grievances as usual.
But what's more interesting is that each Emergency may override the war status from previous emergencies! Consider the following situation:
Resolving Emergencies.
Each different type of Emergency has a particular goal; and although the different types are triggered by different events, their goals usually include taking a particular city, or cities. Of course, this may be achieved by only one nation, but the system works as a team effort - every participant in the emergency who has helped will gain the same reward, regardless of who delivered the 'killing blow'. In this, Emergencies differ from Scored Competitions, where participants are ranked and get rewards according to their rank. But there's a catch: a nation has to actively do something towards achieving the goals of an Emergency in order to receive the reward! This is accomplished through a Score system: in every particular Emergency particular actions will net a score to a participant. Only if a participant has Score greater than 0 will they receive the reward.
In most cases, Emergencies are conducted through combat. That's why Score is earned through:
The only exception to this is the Religious Emergency, where one gains score by keeping Religious units in the Target city's territory (1 per unit per turn). 
Finally, (almost) all Emergencies have a maximum duration of 29 turns; after they run out and the participants haven't achieved the emergency goal, the 'target' wins and gets the reward. In the opposite case, the Emergency will end as soon as the goal is achieved! Technically, this may happen within a single turn, under the right circumstances; although it will usually take 10-20 turns for the participants to mount an effective assault and overcome opposition. 
Civilopedia entry.
Emergencies are triggered in response to a serious action by a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization), such as conquering a [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state), converting a Holy City, or launching a nuclear attack. The other civilizations in the game will have an opportunity to join in against the player that triggered the Emergency. Civilizations that are Declared Friends or Allies with the target civilization are only invited to join against Betrayal Emergencies.
The joined civs will work towards a specific goal that must be accomplished within a time limit. There may also be bonuses for members of the group to assist them towards the goal. If the goal is accomplished, all members who participated in the Emergency will receive a special reward and a lump sum of {{Gold6}}, but if time runs out first, there will be a penalty assigned and the target will receive {{Gold6}}, instead.
These are the Emergencies in the game:
A civilization's ability to participate in an Emergency is determined by their diplomatic relationship to other civilizations and city-states in the game.
Trivia.
Most Emergencies get triggered when one player gets a significant lead or advantage in an area. Converting a Holy City to a different religion, or using a nuclear weapon, for example. When triggered, the game determines which other players can join in an Emergency against the target and each player can choose to join or pass. Joining can give permanent benefits, but only if the players are able to complete an Emergency-specific objective against the target in time, otherwise the target gets a benefit instead.
They are a sort of checks-and-balances system. You see, there is a delicate balance to strike – making the game more dynamic and also ensuring it stays fair for players who have developed a strong lead. We’re adding challenges to players who’d get so far ahead of others that the game stagnated towards victory for them. We also did not want to artificially rubberband them down. Emergencies become a great way to attack this game-pacing problem. It also reveals the dynamic world stage for players that have more isolationist play styles. As Emergencies come up, they can be involved with them one way or another.