# Empire State Building (CTP2)

The Empire State Building is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)" that's meant for the [American%20%28CTP2%29](American) civilization. If you're playing on a [Map%20%28CTP2%29](map) that does not feature the American civilization (such as Australia or Europe), then this wonder can represent the tallest building in the largest city on either map making the wonder up for grabs because of the Americans being absent for that particular campaign.
Gameplay.
The Empire State Building is a monument to the strength and glory of the corporate world. Though non-governmental in purpose, its towering presence earns the host empire respect and increased diplomatic .
Great Library entry.
One of the architectural marvels of the twentieth century, the Empire State Building, a 1,454-foot high skyscraper at the corner of 5th Avenue and 34th Street in New York City, was a symbol of the majestic power of corporate America. Built during the Great Depression, it was the center of a competition between Walter Chrysler (of Chrysler Corporation) and John Jakob Raskob (creator of General Motors) to see who could build the tallest building. In 1929, Raskob, along with Coleman du Pont, Pierre S. du Pont (president of E.I. Du Pont de Nemours), Louis G. Kaufman and Ellis P. Earl, formed Empire State, Inc. and named Alfred E. Smith, former Governor of New York and Presidential Candidate, to head the corporation. Construction commenced on March 17, 1930 and was completed on November 13, 1930, ahead of schedule. Besides being a towering architectural achievement (it was the tallest building in the world until 1954), it acted as an ambassador to many of the world's most prominent political figures.