# Encampment (Civ6)

The Encampment is a specialty in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" specialized in land unit production and city defense. It requires the [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology).
Buildings.
The following [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) can be constructed in an Encampment:
Strategy.
An Encampment is indispensable to your empire and its largest cities! First, there are the obvious defensive benefits: the Encampment is practically a mini-city which is able to defend itself and shoot at the enemy. Place it strategically so as to make it more difficult for invading armies to take on your [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers).
Second, the Encampment provides bonuses, which allow a city with an Encampment to produce land units much more effectively and quickly. And third, but not last, the city may train units requiring a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resource) when you only have 1 count of this resource. This is crucial in the early game, when you can have access to [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) and [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen) with only 1 count of and (respectively). If you have no Encampment in any city, you will need at least 2 counts of the required resource.
In "", the Encampment and its buildings instead allow you to accumulate more strategic resources, thanks to the change in strategic resource mechanics. You will always want to have as many counts of strategic resources as possible for things like trading for , constructing [Railroad%20%28Civ6%29](Railroads), supplying to your cities, constructing [Lagrange%20Laser%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Lagrange Laser Stations), and being ready to defend yourself with cutting-edge military units should war suddenly break out, so it is beneficial to construct a couple of Encampments even when shooting for more peaceful [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory) paths.
This district has two mutually exclusive buildings: the [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks) and the [Stable%20%28Civ6%29](Stable). You have to choose one of these to build, and the choice will depend on whether you want to build infantry or cavalry units. Of course, if you build a second Encampment, you may supply it with the opposite building choice to complete your army.
An Encampment is less beneficial if you build it where your land is safe. It is best to build this in your outer cities for increased defense.