# Engineers (Civ2)

Engineers are an {{Link|2|Industrial Revolution|Industrial}}-era {{Link|2|pre=cat|worker units|worker}} {{Link|2|unit}} in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)", available with the {{Link|2|Explosives}} {{Link|2|advance}}. They succeed {{Link|2|Settlers}}, performing all tasks at double speed, and have unique access to the {{Link|2|Terraforming|sec=Transform|Transform}} command.
## Overview

Engineers can perform all standard {{Link|2|Orders menu|sec=Worker actions|worker functions}} at twice the efficiency of Settlers. They are also able to {{Link|2|Terraforming|sec=Transform|transform}} {{Link|2|terrain}}.
A city {{Link|2|Production|producing}} a worker unit loses 1 {{Link|2|citizen}} upon completion; if this would disband the city, completion is postponed and {{Production2|s}} will stockpile until the city grows.
Upkeep.
Workers incur a {{Food2|y|y}} upkeep in addition to any other {{Link|2|Maintenance|sec=Unit support|support}} costs, the exact amount depending on the player's {{Link|2|government}}: {{Civ2 government|Anarchy|text=y|link=y}}, {{Civ2 government|Despotism|text=y|link=y}} and {{Civ2 government|Monarchy|text=y|link=y}} require 1 {{Food2}}, while {{Civ2 government|Republic|text=y|link=y}}, {{Civ2 government|Communism|text=y|link=y}}, {{Civ2 government|Fundamentalism|text=y|link=y}} and {{Civ2 government|Democracy|text=y|link=y}} require 2{{Food2}}. A city facing famine will disband workers before sacrificing population.
Strategy.
Engineers have the same production and upkeep cost as Settlers, while being faster and more efficient workers with unique access to the Transform order. It is therefore optimal to replace supported settlers with engineers once they become available. One possible exception is settlers with no [home%20city](home city), as such units do not require food upkeep. If the player controls {{Link|2|Leonardo's Workshop}}, these settlers can upgrade to engineers, providing the {{Link|2|civilization}} with an enhanced "free" labor force.
All worker units cost twice the {{Gold2|y|y}} to {{Link|2|Espionage|sec=Bribe|bribe}}. This is generally inefficient compared to the player building their own; however, engineers bribed closer to rival cities than the player's will not have a home city, and therefore incur no Food upkeep.
While worker units cannot {{Link|2|fortify}} in the field,{{refn|group=note|Through normal orders; Engineers can be fortified via the {{Link|2|Cheat menu|sec=Edit Unit|Cheat Menu}}.}} they can be assigned the Fortify order when selected in the {{Link|2|city screen}}, offering a functional, if precarious, emergency garrison.
Civilopedia entry.
As technology progressed through the centuries, people began to specialize in a single skill or field of knowledge. The early pioneers who acted in the multiple roles of farmers, builders, and just about any other occupation required by their situation, were replaced by engineers specifically trained in a single discipline. Specialized training provided engineers the time and the skill necessary to accomplish feats of construction and environmental manipulation never before experienced in history.
Modding.
Engineers are defined in the second line of the {{mono|@UNITS}} section of {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Rules|sec=Units|Rules.txt}}. [%23Upkeep](Food upkeep) is defined in the {{mono|@COSMIC}} section at lines 6 and 7 for "early" and "late" governments, respectively.
In original versions of "Civilization II" through to , only the unit in the Engineers slot benefits from double work speed. In "", any unit can be flagged as an engineer in the {{mono|@UNITS_ADVANCED}} section of {{mono|Rules.txt}}. {{Bang}}Only the unit in the Engineers slot can perform the Transform command; this becomes available once the player possesses the engineer's prerequisite {{Link|2|advance}}, and is not disabled even if the unit is later rendered [Obsolete%23Civilization%20II](obsolete).
The popup advising of the Transform order is defined at {{mono|@NEWXFORM}} in {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Popups|sec=NEWXFORM|Game.txt}}. It is issued once the unit in the Engineers slot becomes available, even if the unit itself does not have a worker role.