# Engineering (CivBE)

Engineering is a [Primary%20Tech%20%28CivBE%29](Primary Tech) in tier 1 of the [Tech_Web_%28CivBE%29](Tech Web). This technology allows construction of Combat Rovers, the Thorium Reactor and the Repair facility. It also reveals titanium on the map.
There is no affinity linked to this technology.
In Universe Information.
The application of practical principles to build tools, machines, to construct buildings and improvements has always been the cornerstone of civilization. It isn't any different on this new planet. Each ship in the Seeding contained scores of mechanical, electrical and civil engineers, which started work as soon as their ships landed. While their theoretical colleagues labored to uncover the secrets of this new world, engineers were building machines, essential tools, and finding use of the new elements available here. They transformed traditional methods of bringing food, water and energy to settlements, they devised clever new ways for waste disposal, and they thought of things even their theoretical colleagues didn't think of. One of these was the use of nanotechnology - a field always underdeveloped on Old Earth, due to the grand problems that arose from the Great Mistake. Here, on a new, fresh world, engineers felt free to experiment with microengineering, and this led to the developments of 'nanites' - miniature robots capable of unbelievable feats of construction strength. It was thanks to them that the Planetary Wonders became even possible. 