# English (Civ5)

The English people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The English are one of the strongest seafaring civilizations in the game. They start on a coast and get a bonus for all ships (of "any" kind, including [Embarkation%20%28Civ5%29](embarked) [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units)). This bonus is more powerful than it looks at first glance, because it allows them to explore the world much faster, and to move units across seas and oceans in the blink of an eye. The [Ship%20of%20the%20Line%20%28Civ5%29](Ship of the Line) seals their naval advantage in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance)/[Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era).
Another great combat advantage on land is the [Longbowman%20%28Civ5%29](Longbowman), which gives them incredible striking range. Entrench these in [Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Forts), [Citadel%20%28Civ5%29](Citadels), and [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) across your empire and lay waste to any fools trying to attack you. Another strategy is to build the [Great%20Lighthouse%20%28Civ5%29](Great Lighthouse) early on to give your naval units additional bonuses to their and [Sight%20%28Civ5%29](sight). If you then adopt the [Exploration%20%28Civ5%29](Exploration) [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy), all of your naval units will have +4 and +2 Sight (+3 Sight for Ships of the Line), giving you the world's mightiest navy!
As a bonus, the English get an extra right from the Renaissance Era, allowing a greater [Espionage%20%28Civ5%29](espionage) power for them throughout the rest of the game. Develop that further by building [Constabulary%20%28Civ5%29](Constabularies) and [Police%20Station%20%28Civ5%29](Police Stations), and crown it with the [National%20Intelligence%20Agency%20%28Civ5%29](National Intelligence Agency) to become the greatest spying civilization in the game! On a side note, having extra spies in "" means that you have more spies to place as s in other civilizations' s, giving England an advantage in [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomacy) as well.
The only problem with the English is the early game. Build up your defenses to be sure you won't get wiped out by someone with early game advantages, such as the [Hunnic%20%28Civ5%29](Huns).