# English (Civ6)

The English people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Victoria%20%28Civ6%29](Victoria), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are red and white; by [Victoria%20%28Civ6%29/Age%20of%20Steam](Age of Steam Victoria), under whom their default colors are dark blue and red; by [Eleanor%20of%20Aquitaine%20%28Civ6%29](Eleanor of Aquitaine), under whom their default colors are pink and white; and by [Elizabeth%20I%20%28Civ6%29](Elizabeth I), under whom their default colors are white and red.
The English [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is British Museum, which provides additional {{Artifact6}} [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29%23Artifacts](Artifact) slots and [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologists) in their [Archaeological%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeological Museums), and automatically [Theming%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](themes) them once they are filled. In "Gathering Storm", this ability is replaced by Workshop of the World, which increases the amount of {{Iron6}} and {{Coal6}} [Resources%20%28Civ6%29](resources) extracted from [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines), allows for [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineers) to be built faster and with additional charges, increases the yields provided by [Power%20%28Civ6%29](powered) [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](buildings), increases {{Production6}} towards [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) buildings and makes [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) buildings increase the amount of [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](Strategic Resources) the player can stockpile. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Sea%20Dog%20%28Civ6%29](Sea Dog) (which replaces the [Privateer%20%28Civ6%29](Privateer)), and their unique {{District6}} is the [Royal%20Navy%20Dockyard%20%28Civ6%29](Royal Navy Dockyard) (which replaces the Harbor).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 3 towards [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast), tier 5 towards {{Iron6}} and {{Coal6}}"
An exploration, colonization and seafaring powerhouse, England is a versatile civilization that can employ an array of strategies to sprint towards the finish line. Whether a cultural powerhouse in "Vanilla" and "[Rise%20and%20Fall](Rise and Fall) "or a bustling industrial hub in "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)", assisted by their powerful navy, England is a force to be reckoned with.
Vanilla &amp; Rise and Fall: British Museum.
This ability is decent, but feels rather boring and underwhelming, as it basically just gives you sort of a unique building that does not grant Era Score upon building the first copy. An English Archaeological Museum has twice as many slots as a regular one, and automatically receive theming bonus when filled. A hidden change to this building is that the city it is built in can now host up to 2 [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologists) with 6 combined charges, or one Archaeologist with 6 charges. If you have plenty of {{Gold6}} to spend or that particular city is high in {{Production6}}, you can produce 2 Archaeologists so they can fill your Museum up faster. This is not always recommended, but in a tight race against other Cultural civilizations, this can ensure you can always fill up all your slots, and since you can only move {{Artifact6}} Artifacts when all the slots are filled, 2 half-filled Museums cannot give you 1 full Museum for the theming bonus to kick in. You can also always trade with other empires for extra {{Artifact6}} Artifacts, too or use your army to force them to hand them over.
With all of their artifacts, it is strongly recommended that England recruits the [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Scientist) [Mary%20Leakey%20%28Civ6%29](Mary Leakey), achieves Suzerainty of [Anshan%20%28Civ6%29](Anshan), and builds the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army). With this combo, a full Archaeological Museum will produce +6 {{Science6}}, +36 {{Culture6}}, and +108 {{Tourism6}}. Additionally, your Archaeologists can enter foreign lands without open borders, if you have the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army), making filling your museums easier than ever. If you are unable to build the Terracotta Army, use the [Gunboat%20Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](Gunboat Diplomacy) [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) to compensate, which will grant you open borders with city-states. If an England players wishes to further boost the {{Tourism6}} output of their {{Artifact6}} Artifacts, use the [Heritage%20Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Heritage Tourism) policy card, which doubles all {{Tourism6}} from not only {{Artifact6}} Artifacts, but all types of Great Works, as well. Also, in "Rise and Fall", don't forget to assign [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) with the [Curator%20%28Civ6%29](Curator) title to your main {{Tourism6}} hub to further enhance these numbers.
Gathering Storm: Workshop of the World.
England got a much needed civilization ability overhaul to have more tie-ins with new mechanics like {{Power6}} and Strategic Resource accumulation. From a dull and passive ability in the Vanilla version, England now truly claims their place as an industrial powerhouse, much like in history. This is a really composite, multifaceted ability.
"Faster Coal and Iron accumulation and higher stockpile cap".
England and [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canada) are the only civilizations in "Gathering Storm" whose civilization abilities provide faster resource accumulation; unlike Canada, however, England will not run into low stockpile cap problems for not building [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) because of their much superior and cheaper [Royal%20Navy%20Dockyard%20%28Civ6%29](Royal Navy Dockyard). Nevertheless, England's bonus only applies to {{Iron6}} and {{Coal6}}. In terms of {{Iron6}}, most of the time you will only use it for trading with other empires, as England does not have any warfare bonus early on, as well as an edge in terms of land battles, to produce [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen), [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights), and [Cuirassier%20%28Civ6%29](Cuirassiers) en masse, but of course, that can still be a choice. {{Coal6}} is used to build Ironclads, Battleships, railroads (combined with {{Iron6}}) and fuel [Coal%20Power%20Plants%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plants), all of which is much more useful and plays directly into England's [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) power spike. Make sure you unlock Industrialization as fast as possible to reveal {{Coal6}}, scout out good landmasses and start to colonize them. With the Pax Britannica ability and the Royal Navy Dockyard, even lands far from your territory are not out of your grasp.
Higher stockpile limit also means you can store every other types of Strategic Resources better, including {{Uranium6}} for later [Nukes%20%28Civ6%29](nukes) and [Giant%20Death%20Robot%20%28Civ6%29](Giant Death Robots), and {{Aluminum6}} for aircraft and a possible Scientific Victory.
"Better Military Engineers".
In order to be able to build [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineers), you need an Encampment with an Armory. As England, since your military prowess lies at seas, and buildings in your Royal Navy Dockyards also boost Strategic Resource stockpile, you do not have a lot of incentives of building Encampments, but you should still have at least one copy of the district to make use of Military Engineers. In "Gathering Storms, "Engineers are much more useful, besides constructing usual tile improvements, they now can also spend charges to complete 20% {{Production6}} of engineering districts ([Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts), [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams), [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals)), all of which provide major adjacency bonuses to the Industrial Zone, a must-build district in every English city when the Industrial Era comes. An English Engineer has 4 charges, instead of 2, meaning they can complete up to 80% {{Production6}} of an engineering district. Later on, they can be used to construct [Railroads%20%28Civ6%29](Railroads), which is really good for England considering their considerable income of {{Iron6}} and {{Coal6}}, and [Mountain%20Tunnel%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain Tunnels). Both of these improvements further boost military mobilization inside English territory and yields from {{TradeRoute6}}s. Unlike other civilizations, England should not ignore the use of Military Engineers. With their massive Industrial Zones with impressive adjacency bonuses thanks to all these Aqueducts, Dams and Canals, plus a more powerful Factory, England will be a {{Production6}} powerhouse that can take any victory type they want.
"Stronger Powered Buildings".
The "Gathering Storm" expansion introduced the concept of {{Power6}}, together with a number of late game buildings whose yields are improved when their parent cities are fully {{Power6}}ed. They consist of the [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory), [Stock%20Exchange%20%28Civ6%29](Stock Exchange), [Food%20Market%20%28Civ6%29](Food Market), [Broadcast%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](Broadcast Center), [Research%20Lab%20%28Civ6%29](Research Lab), [Shopping%20Mall%20%28Civ6%29](Shopping Mall), [Airport%20%28Civ6%29](Airport), [Aquatics%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](Aquatics Center), and [Stadium%20%28Civ6%29](Stadium). The English civilization ability provides additional yields appropriately to all of these buildings except for those which provide {{Amenities6}}, as {{Amenities6}} do not count as turn by turn yields in the same sense that {{Gold6}}, {{Science6}}, {{Faith6}}, {{Culture6}}, {{Food6}} and {{Production6}} do. By saying that, this ability completely ignores the Stadium and the Aquatics Center, as these two buildings still provide the normal amount of {{Amenities6}} when {{Power6}}ed compared to other civilizations. Regarding the Shopping Mall, the +4 bonus applies to its {{Gold6}} yield only, not the {{Tourism6}} or {{Amenities6}}.
There are a number of ways to get your cities {{Power6}}ed, each of which comes with its own own advantages and disadvantages:
- Through Power Plants: This is the most common way to provide {{Power6}} to your cities. The drawback is that they discharge a lot of carbon into the atmosphere, especially the [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant) that England loves using since they have plenty of {{Coal6}}. This can negatively affect your relationship with other leaders or your amount of {{DiplomaticFavor6}} earned per turn, leading to weaker influence in the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress). However, this is still the most probable way to power your empire when playing as England, as it is available right at your Industrial power spike upon unlocking Industrialization.
- Through improvements and Dams: These sources are considered "clean energy," so they do not discharge carbon. However, the improvements are unlocked very late into the game, wasting your huge potential for multiple eras; the "0 carbon emission" victory method which relies completely on improvements is definitely not recommended for England. [Hydroelectric%20Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Hydroelectric Dams), on the other hand, are great for England because they have an easier time building Dams with Military Engineers. Still, this building is unlocked with [Electricity%20%28Civ6%29](Electricity), a [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology); by that time, a whole era will be wasted if you wait for this building and solely rely on it. Furthermore, the {{Power6}} supplied by the Hydroelectric Dam is localized (supplied to its parent city only). Considering that the Dam is a district with strict placement requirements, many of your cities which cannot build this district may go unpowered.
- Through running [Industrial%20Zone%20Logistics%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone Logistics) [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects): When this project is being run, the parent city is always fully {{Power6}}ed. The downside is that you cannot do anything else with that city, so this should be a last resort. It is especially helpful when you need to rush for a desirable [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineer).
- Through gaining Suzerainty of [Cardiff%20%28Civ6%29](Cardiff): This city-state's unique bonus gives all of your [Royal%20Navy%20Dockyard%20%28Civ6%29](Royal Navy Dockyard) buildings 2 {{Power6}}. This means that a fully-developed Royal Navy Dockyard can give you 6 {{Power6}}, the same as a [Hydroelectric%20Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Hydroelectric Dam) and more than an [Oil%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Oil) or [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant). Also, through the [Biosph%C3%A8re%20%28Civ6%29](Biosphère) you can reach an output of 18 {{Power6}}. Cardiff goes very well with the English starting bias towards Coast and incentive to build as many Royal Navy Dockyards as possible. This is by far the best way for England to power their cities at [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization) because before you get to it you will most likely have Royal Navy Dockyards in most cities and have enough {{Envoy6}}s to becomes its Suzerain. It is not always guaranteed that Cardiff will be in your game, but if they are you need to make them a priority.
Overall, Coal Power Plants are still your best friend. Do not worry too much about the {{DiplomaticFavor6}} penalty, as it will take a while to kick in. If you want to go for a Diplomatic Victory, you can still use Coal Power Plants and gradually phase them out when more advanced power sources are unlocked.
Pax Britannica (Victoria - Age of Empire).
No matter which expansion you are playing in, the one goal when playing with this leader ability is to scout out a new continent, put down a city and gradually spread your colonies all over that continent, and do that again and again. In "Rise and Fall" and the vanilla version, you can get up to two melee units for the first city on a foreign continent, which is not much but still a good incentive to build up your army. In "Gathering Storm", the stake is much higher, since now you can get a melee unit and a new {{TradeRoute6}} for the first city on a foreign continent. The first district you should put down in these cities, without a doubt, is your unique Harbor. Remember, although you only gain a melee unit and a new {{TradeRoute6}} from the first city on a continent away from your home continent, you will get a naval unit after building a Royal Navy Dockyard anywhere! This district gives you the Loyalty you need to establish a foothold on that new continent, especially when you have neighbors around that area, and even when you do not look to colonize new continents, just the navy you will have from building this district can help you tremendously wrest control of the sea on any water-dominated maps. Most of the time, the strongest naval unit will be the most recently unlocked unit that you have, except for 2 cases: [Quadrireme%20%28Civ6%29](Quadrireme) and [Aircraft%20Carrier%20%28Civ6%29](Aircraft Carrier), both of which you can never earn. When the Quadrireme is unlocked, it still has less {{Strength6}} Combat Strength than the [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galley), and Aircraft Carrier is unlocked at the same tech as the [Destroyer%20%28Civ6%29](Destroyer), which has higher {{Strength6}} Combat Strength.
The number of continents available on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) scale upward according to the map size as follows: Duel (1), Tiny (2), Small (3), Standard (4), Large (5) and Huge (6): this means you will not be able to get any melee units or {{TradeRoute6}}s out of a Duel map with this ability, only the free naval units from your Dockyards. With your free units, especially when you unlock the Redcoat in the Industrial Era, your army of Redcoat, Frigates and Sea Dogs should have no problems pushing deeper inland from your one coastal colony. Note that, units received this way are not totally "free" (like those of [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium's) [Hippodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Hippodrome)), as you still have to pay for their maintenance, in both {{Gold6}} and resources.
Redcoat.
The Redcoat is one of the strongest melee units all the way to the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era), especially when fighting on a foreign continent. There, it is able to stand its ground even against [Tank%20%28Civ6%29](Tanks) and [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry)!
The best thing about the Redcoat is that it appears for free when founding [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) on other continents (after [Military%20Science%20%28Civ6%29](Military Science) is researched, of course). This means additional defense for these cities right from the start, not to mention the free unit. And, as with all civilization-specific or (as in this case) leader-specific units, the Redcoat requires no strategic resources in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and "", which is a great boon during a game in which the player has been unable to secure {{Niter6}} for [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketmen) and has outdated melee units as a result - although you won't be able to upgrade these units to Redcoats without {{Niter6}}. In "Gathering Storm", you will still need {{Niter6}} for Redcoats, but only half as much as you would for regular [Line%20Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Line Infantry). More importantly, you only get free melee units from founding a new city on a continent you previously have not touched, so while Redcoats will still be valuable, they will not be as numerous unless you leverage your {{Production6}} advantages.
A great tactic for these troops in vanilla and "Rise and Fall" is to mass them until you're ready to launch an offensive. Since you receive a Redcoat every time you found a city outside your home continent, you can be constantly gaining more and more military strength that you can turn against your opponents. Bear in mind, however, that Redcoats are quite expensive to maintain, so if you conquer too many cities you won't be able to afford the Redcoats and may go bankrupt. If you plan on making a Redcoat army, you must make sure your economy can handle it. (In "Gathering Storm", a Redcoat push doesn't snowball in either power or cost in the same way.)
Should you face a Redcoat invasion, try to take them out before they can hit your shores. If they land, then try to out-range them with [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannons)!
Court of Love (Eleanor of Aquitaine).
Court of Love is a weird ability since it is impossible to evaluate its power level in a vacuum: it ranges from completely useless to totally broken. The reason for this is that this ability, in nature, is very similar to a game of conquest. It is all about snowballing: once you are able to conquer one neighbor city, it will trigger a domino effect to every nearby one. The main difference between Court of Love and a traditional warmongering ability is that it is utterly passive, and you need a whole lot of luck for certain factors to align perfectly in your favor to get this snowball rolling. In a true warmongering situation, on the other hand, you can just amass your army and use strategies to run your neighbors over (which can be totally controlled by you).
The following factors affect this ability's efficacy: 
Nonetheless, there are certain measures you can take - not enough to ensure the odds will always be in your favor, but they can definitely help your peaceful conquest: 
Overall, Victoria is the more reliable leader choice for England, especially in the first playthrough when you are still trying to get a feel for the civilization. Eleanor's bonus can often feel inconsequential if you are not sure what you are doing, especially on a naval map where the rest of English kit really thrives.
"French Eleanor vs. English Eleanor".
At first glance, it seems like Eleanor of Aquitaine has better synergy with the French arsenal than with the English. When playing as the French leader, the civilization ability, the unique unit and the unique infrastructure all play into a Cultural game when she herself has a Cultural incentive but without a strong starting Cultural foothold. However, France overall is a below average civilization, [Catherine%20de%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29](Catherine de Medici) used to be its saving grace due to her exceptional leader ability with espionage, England has a much better support network for any leader, even when Eleanor's ability does not seem to combo well with it. Think of it this way: French Eleanor is passive and more relying on luck while English Eleanor requires a much more aggressive gameplay to be successful, but it also means English Eleanor can take matter into her own hands. France is a land civilization, with average bonuses towards {{Tourism6}} and building Wonders. Loyalty pressure spreads well on any land map, since empires settle close side by side, or can even surround each other if done right, and their unique unit is mostly for defensive purposes. England, however, is a naval/colonial civilization, if you just wait for loyalty flipping, most likely nothing will happen, because loyalty is almost a non-factor on any naval map as it can never spread across a body of water. Here is what you should do with England: scout out a continent of another civilization, invade them with your strong naval power, take at least two cities on the coast with Harbors, and you should choose the two that are next to each other, with the highest combined number of {{Population6}} Population. These Harbors will then turn into the stronger Royal Navy Dockyard, which then gives you the Loyalty you need to get a foothold on that continent. From here, you can continue attacking deeper into land, or let your leader ability go to work. Do not make peace now, two cities are probably not enough to flip the entire empire on their own. Go pillaging their all of Luxury resources to drop their {{Amenities6}} (this is very important!), building Theater Squares if those cities do not already have one, and then move Amani and your Great Works there, and use your network of Spies to start pumping up the Loyalty pressure. With no {{Amenities6}} from resources, flipping should be much easier and smoother. By this time (around Medieval Era, when you unlock your unique unit and your territory at home is pretty much well developed), you should have [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) with the [Contractor%20%28Civ6%29](Contractor) promotion, so that you can put down the two Theater Squares quickly, you will not have any {{Gold6}} problem when playing as England.
Age of Steam (Victoria - Age of Steam).
This is a relatively straightforward leader ability, but certainly a powerful one - especially in later eras. {{Production6}} may be the most consistently important yield in the game, and Age of Steam offers a potentially spectacular bonus to it.
The immediate +2 {{Production6}} to [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic%20Resources](Strategic Resources) is useful enough in the early game, helping England develop their early infrastructure for any victory condition - due to England's start bias towards {{Iron6}}, going directly to [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working) is often a good idea, although it is only a Tier 5 start bias so you cannot guarantee {{Iron6}} availability near your start location. What you can, however, guarantee is that you will eventually be building [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) and their buildings - and this is where this ability can really snowball. [Ruhr%20Valley%20%28Civ6%29](Ruhr Valley) is considered one of the most powerful wonders in the game for its bonus of +20% {{Production6}} to the city that builds it; Age of Steam can provide half of that bonus in any city with a [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop) (two entire eras before Ruhr Valley is unlocked), then again for a [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory), and then again for a [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Power Plant) - and this stacks with Ruhr Valley and [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani) for a potential +80% {{Production6}} in one city! 
Needless to say, you will want to reach [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship) and then [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization) at an accelerated rate, build and develop Industrial Zones in large numbers, and ideally try to maximise their adjacency bonuses. [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts) and [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams) offer major (+2) adjacency bonuses to Industrial Zones, can be rushed with Military Engineers in "Gathering Storm" due to the civ ability (this is much more worthwhile for Dams though, due to their greater cost), and offer extra {{Housing6}} so your highly productive cities can grow taller.
Drake's Legacy (Elizabeth I).
Elizabeth I places England on more of a trade-focused footing, and while not the most exciting English leader ability, Drake's Legacy is at least consistent in providing something of use.
"Extra Trade Routes from your first Great Admiral".
This is a weirdly conditional bonus, as it only applies if the {{Admiral6}} in question is from the Renaissance Era or earlier. That said, unless you are starting in a later Era, that distinction will rarely come into play, as you'll be building Royal Navy Dockyards anyway. You will have to buy or produce the [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Traders) to activate this extra capacity, unlike similar bonuses from the [Colossus%20%28Civ6%29](Colossus) or the [Cree%20%28Civ6%29](Cree) civ ability. Still, this is a reasonable bonus that stacks with the next part of this ability. 
"Trade Routes to city-states gain extra Gold".
This bonus is strongest when you develop a powerful city (such as your {{Capital6}}) as your trade hub, as the bonus is +3 {{Gold6}} for each specialty [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) in the "origin" city. You will therefore want to scout extensively early on so you can find as many city-states as possible for trade agreements with England - while one city can trade with multiple others, you cannot send exact duplicate routes.
"Double yields from plundering Trade Routes".
You can only make use of this bonus when going to war, and it is not powerful enough to warrant warfare in itself. However, if you're on the offensive anyway, you can definitely weaken other empires who rely on naval trade - [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal) being a prime target. This also makes [Mogadishu%20%28Civ6%29](Mogadishu) an important city-state to either compete for or capture, as its Suzerain bonus denies naval plundering altogether. Slot either the [Total%20War%20%28Civ6%29](Total War) or (if you're playing with the expansions and in a {{DarkAge6}}) [Letters%20of%20Marque%20%28Civ6%29](Letters of Marque) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) for even more valuable plundering opportunities.
Royal Navy Dockyard.
Playing as England, you should make your navy a priority. Research [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation) and [Shipbuilding%20%28Civ6%29](Shipbuilding) as soon as you can. While you research these techs, make a couple of [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galleys) to explore and find new [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continents). Once you research Shipbuilding make several [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers), send them across the sea to continents, and build Royal Navy Dockyards in your new [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities).
After you finish Shipbuilding, you can do one of two things. You can either rush [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography) and [Square%20Rigging%20%28Civ6%29](Square Rigging) to get powerful naval units, or focus on {{Science6}} and rush [Redcoat%20%28Civ6%29](Redcoats) (which Victoria's leader ability will provide). The instant you get Redcoats, it's basically over for every other civ. Since they are so expensive to maintain, however, you need to have enough {{Gold6}} to support your army, which will grow larger every time you conquer a city on another continent. Keep your economy strong by building [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) and economic buildings in your cities and sending {{TradeRoute6}}s to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) and neighbors with whom you aren't at war.
With Royal Navy Dockyards on every continent, you'll soon attract [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals) who can help you achieve naval supremacy. If you get [Gaius%20Duilius%20%28Civ6%29](Gaius Duilius) (whose ability forms a Fleet out of any naval unit), save him until you get your first [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigate), then use him on it. An early game Frigate Fleet will absolutely destroy [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) cities. Even better, if you get [Santa%20Cruz%20%28Civ6%29](Santa Cruz), you can use him to form a Frigate Armada and own the ocean!
However, controlling the ocean will do you no good if you can't see what's hidden over the horizon, and other players will become suspicious if they see a Frigate Fleet or Armada near their borders. To solve this problem, discover [Mercantilism%20%28Civ6%29](Mercantilism) as quickly as possible and begin producing Sea Dogs, then send them out to certain strategic spots on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) so they can patrol the ocean without being seen. If someone tries to turn the tables on you and launch a surprise assault on your shores, you'll know it's coming and be able to capture their ships with your Sea Dogs while the rest of your navy deals with any embarked units.
Another incredible strategy you can utilize with this district is pre-building a few of them to 1 turn, then rushing to Square Rigging and finishing them all in one turn, instantly creating you a powerful and advanced navy, and likely the economy to support it provided they have good adjacency.
Sea Dog.
Compared to the [Privateer%20%28Civ6%29](Privateer) which it replaces, the Sea Dog has a minor {{Strength6}} Combat Strength edge but, more importantly, it can capture enemy ships! If it is adjacent to an enemy naval unit that would be destroyed by its attack, there is a chance that the unit is captured instead. This chance is based on the difference between the Sea Dog's base {{RangedStrength6}} Ranged Strength and the enemy's {{Strength6}} Combat Strength, and does not take into account any modifiers from {{Promotion6}}, [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards), [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals), or any other sources. The capture chance is 100% if the difference is 20 or more in favor of the Sea Dog and 0% if the difference is 20 or more in favor of the defender.
The Sea Dog's ability has the potential to turn the English into the strongest naval civilization in the game, if used correctly. Build a fleet of 3-4 Sea Dogs, then immediately declare war on a nation with a fleet. It doesn't even need to be a neighboring nation, and you don't even need to conquer any of its territory - just send your own fleet and start marauding on their coasts. When they react, proceed to take possession of their fleet and enhance your own!
Sea Dogs work best as Armadas - a Sea Dog Armada has a 67% chance of capturing an enemy [Battleship%20%28Civ6%29](Battleship), and can even capture a [Nuclear%20Submarine%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Submarine) 17% of the time. However, they lose the ability to capture ships when upgraded.
Another unique characteristic of this unit is that it is unlocked with Mercantilism on the Civic tree, meaning you should try for somewhat good {{Culture6}} generation in the early game. Aim for Exploration afterwards so you have access to [Press%20Gangs%20%28Civ6%29](Press Gangs), considering the Sea Dog has a rather high {{Production6}} cost. Better yet, if you are in a [Dark%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Dark Age), you can also run [Letters%20of%20Marque%20%28Civ6%29](Letters of Marque) just to build your fleet of Sea Dogs a little bit faster.
Victory Types.
Before or after the release of "Gathering Storm", England is versatile through and through, as it takes a number of playthroughs for players to experience every strength of this multifaceted civilization. The only victory route that England does not have any explicit power in is religious; every other route is viable to different degrees.
"Vanilla and Rise and Fall".
The English civilization ability grants them power on the cultural path while Victoria's leader ability, the two unique units and the Royal Navy Dockyard allow a smooth Domination Victory. These two can also go hand in hand since militaristic and colonial power can help capture {{AntiquitySite6}}s from other empires. Scientific Victory can be an effective backup as well: the Free Inquiry Golden Age dedication can make Royal Navy Dockyards provide considerable amounts of {{Science6}}, providing a meaningful early {{Science6}} lead.
"Gathering Storm".
With the introduction of a new leader, England is even more versatile than before. Besides their already impressive skew towards Domination Victory, England can now also pursue a Science Victory well, thanks to the massive amount of {{Production6}} it will get from the Industrial Era onward (from both the better Factory and the high adjacency bonus of the Industrial Zones from rushing Canals, Dams and Aqueducts with your Engineers). Cultural Victory is less explicitly viable due to the loss of the museum bonus, but is still viable with the {{Production6}} bonuses.
All leader options can pursue any of these victory conditions reasonably well, but Eleanor is the least reliable. Both Victoria personas are more suitable for new players in the first few playthroughs, with Age of Empire playing best for Domination and Age of Steam being especially powerful at Science.
Counter Strategy.
"Vanilla and Rise and Fall".
The best way to counter England's impressive Cultural Victory prowess is to deny them your {{ArtifactIcon6}} Artifacts. Make sure to deny them the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army), and always ask for a Promise not to dig up your artifacts as soon as possible. In addition, if you must war with them in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) onward, try to fight mostly by land, because the Sea Dog can cause problems for even a very well-prepared navy.
"Gathering Storm".
In this expansion, England has gained a new and versatile ability which is countered by different methods. The first and most important step is to try and have a monopoly on all the {{Power6}}-giving [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resources) you can, especially {{Coal6}}. If they have to rely on you for their strategic resources, their boosted {{Power6}} bonuses won't do a thing. Also make sure to settle strategically: if playing against Victoria (Age of Empire), create a wall of cities on your continent and deny her [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](Open Borders) so that English [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers) cannot get through, and if playing against Eleanor, avoid settling nearby, because she will surely try to flip your cities.