# Entertainment Complex (Civ6)

The Entertainment Complex is a in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", dedicated to providing happiness and to your empire. It requires the [Games%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Games and Recreation) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in an Entertainment Complex:
Strategy.
The Entertainment Complex is one of the districts often overlooked by players. It is not as crucial as, for example, the [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) or [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment), nor is it really as useful as the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub). However, when an empire starts growing and its cities go above 10 Population, you will actually find the Entertainment Complex useful indeed! Both small and large empires benefit from more - the former because they don't have access to many [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](Luxury Resources), and the latter because they have too many cities. Otherwise you will quickly find that you have to put down constant revolts. Still, this district is arguably less useful in the early game than others - seek to add it to your cities in the middle and late game.
Unlike other districts, the Entertainment Complex doesn't have [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) (unless built next to the [Pamukkale%20%28Civ6%29](Pamukkale), providing an extra +1 ). But that doesn't mean that where you place it doesn't matter! The regional effect of its buildings may benefit your empire if you place it in the right place (somewhere close to the center of your extended [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory), or at least close to another city), or it may be lost to you if you stick it close to the empire's [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders). So, be smart and think ahead. Finally, in "", it gives a major (+2 ) adjacency bonus to [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) (the same adjacency as a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder)).
Building four Entertainment Complexes (two in "Gathering Storm") triggers the for [Professional%20Sports%20%28Civ6%29](Professional Sports).