# Envoy (Civ6)

The Envoy is a diplomatic representative of your [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) that acts as your agent in [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) that you've met. It is the focus of the brand new City-State Influence system in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", which is suited to all the major changes which happened in this aspect of the game. 
Earning Envoys.
There are many ways to earn Envoys:
Most of the above ways to earn Envoys provide you with "free use" agents, which you can then assign as you please; the only exceptions being meeting a city-state first, performing a quest for a city-state and liberating a city-state. Both of these will earn Envoys directly with the city-state in question.
Using Envoys.
After earning an Envoy, you will receive a prompt to choose which city-state to send it to. This is done in the City-States tab, where you will see buttons next to each city-state with which to increase (or decrease) the number of your Envoys there. If you have multiple Envoys available, you may divide them between city-states as you wish. You may choose also to delay their assignment if you have no immediate use for them - just go out of the City-State window without assigning Envoys.
The type bonuses earned from city-states are based on how many Envoys you have present, regardless of who else has Envoys there. City-states of a type all share the same type of bonuses. They are cumulative, so that as a player places more and more Envoys on a city-state, they stack with the bonuses from before. For more information on what exactly the benefits of Envoys are, head [City-state%20%28Civ6%29%23Relations%20Degrees](here).
 Envoys at a city-state are visible to all players, and placing them may have [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](diplomatic) consequences. Other leaders who strive to become this specific state's Suzerain will be displeased if you compete with them; so will leaders with the City-State Ally [List%20of%20agendas%20in%20Civ6%23Hidden](agenda).
Losing Envoys.
There are several gameplay situations in which you will lose your Envoys with a certain city-state. Declaring war directly on a city-state removes all Envoys you had there; the same also happens if the city-state loses its independence (i.e., gets conquered by another civilization). Otherwise, Envoys stay in the city-state permanently. Being drawn into war with a city-state due to warring with its Suzerain does not remove your Envoys. What's more, you're still able to assign Envoys there. This interesting state of affairs actually makes it possible for you to "flip" a city-state's allegiance in the middle of a war. If you assign or otherwise gain enough Envoys to at least equal its current Suzerain's number of Envoys, that nation will immediately lose its Suzerain status, and the city-state will make peace with you automatically. This is actually worth a [Historic%20Moments%20%28Civ6%29](Historic Moment).
In "Rise and Fall", [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies) can remove other civilizations' Envoys from a city-state if they succeed at a Fabricate Scandal mission.