# Espionage (Civ6)

Espionage is a game system in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" which allows undercover activities in other [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations') [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), such as stealing [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies), , or even [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works). The system has been greatly expanded compared to ', and is now pretty similar to the one from '.
Espionage Mechanics.
Espionage becomes possible in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era), thanks to [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) development. The [Diplomatic%20Service%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Service) civic allows you to train your first [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spy), and subsequent civics (and the [Computers%20%28Civ6%29](Computers) tech) will allow you to maintain more than one. Note that you can always maintain a certain maximum number of Spies in your empire, similarly to [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Traders). The maximum number of Spies a civilization can have is 5 in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and 6 from "" onward thanks to the [Intelligence%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](Intelligence Agency). [Catherine%20de%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29](Catherine de Medici) and [Wu%20Zetian%20%28Civ6%29](Wu Zetian) can have one more Spy than normal (6 in vanilla and 7 in the expansions). If the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) is enabled, the [Owls%20of%20Minerva%20%28Civ6%29](Owls of Minerva) can further increase the Spy capacity by 2, allowing for a total of 8 Spies, or 9 if playing as Catherine de Medici or Wu Zetian.
Spies.
Spies in "Civilization VI" are almost like other [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) - they must be produced in cities (via the normal Production queue) and moved around. They can also get killed, or captured, albeit not by normal [Military%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](military units) but rather through rival civilizations' counterespionage forces. Note that you can never have more Spies than your current empire's development allows!
Spies take quite some time to produce, but this time may be reduced with the [Machiavellianism%20%28Civ6%29](Machiavellianism) Diplomatic Policy. Also, each Spy has a unique name to help you distinguish them from your other Spies.
Spy Activity.
Spies act in cities. Spy missions may be performed in enemy cities and your own, and what exactly they will do depends on the city you send them to. Under the vanilla ruleset, Spies cannot act in [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states).
Spies aren't moved like regular units; they jump from city to city using air, sea, road, or foot travel, each with their own travel time. You may send a Spy to any city you have revealed (provided you don't have an with that civilization), regardless of any actual physical constraints - they are clever, and they will find a way. The only difference is how many turns they'll take to arrive at their destination. Whenever you are prompted to choose this destination, the dialogue will reveal all possible target cities, the s they have, the time it will take to move there, and what possible Operations the Spy may undertake. Once established in a city, a Spy can begin their mission. Note that a single city may contain more than one Spy, but no two Spies may perform the same Mission in the same city.
Spy Experience.
Spies begin at the Recruit level and gain levels by successfully completing offensive missions or capturing enemy Spies while counterspying, earning special s with each level they gain. These usually make them more effective at certain types of missions, or at remaining undetected during missions. Spies are able to choose one of three promotions each time they gain a level, which are chosen at random from the pool below (though in "", slotting [Non-State%20Actors%20%28Civ6%29](Non-State Actors) will allow them to choose any promotion).
Despite not being military units, all Spies owned by the player who builds the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army) will receive a free .
The level of a Spy also increases their general chances of success at what they are doing. In ascending order, the levels are as follows:
A Spy that reaches Master Spy level stops gaining experience. This means that each Spy can have up to three s - you should choose which ones they will acquire carefully.
Mission Details.
Espionage Missions.
When a Spy arrives at their destination, a list of possible Missions appears. Their range depends on the [District%20%28Civ6%29](Districts) in the destination city. When you choose a specific mission, a Mission Briefing screen will appear, listing the Mission duration, the chances of Success and Failure, and the chance of the Spy being Captured or Killed.
Mission duration and the number of turns that Gain Sources and Neutralize Governor remain in effect if successfully completed are dependent on [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](game speed). Numbers below are for Standard speed.
A Spy can also be assigned to one of their owner's cities on Counter-Espionage missions. The Spy can be stationed in either the City Center or one of the city's districts. The Spy's district and all those adjacent to it will benefit from his or her vigilance, so if enemy Spies are performing missions in those districts, there is a much higher chance than normal that they will be caught.
Mission Duration.
All missions have uniform duration. Unlike "Civilization V: Gods &amp; Kings", there won't be long periods of time a Spy will pass without apparently doing anything (such as going as long as 60 turns trying to steal a tech). The missions now are quick, brutal and effective - the results will come much quicker, but the enemy will also have more chances to catch your Spy. The aforementioned [Machiavellianism%20%28Civ6%29](Machiavellianism) policy card will speed missions up even more, as will the Linguist Promotion.
Spy Discovered.
At the conclusion of most missions, whether succeeded or failed, your Spy may be discovered by the police of the target civilization. When your Spy is discovered, the target civilization's leader will demand you cease spying on them. The leader will also gain a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) against you.
Furthermore, if a Spy is discovered, he or she will need to escape from the target city. You will be prompted to select the method of escape. There are four possible options:
If your Spy fails the escape, they may be captured or killed. The faster the escape method, the less likely your Spy is to escape successfully. The die roll occurs within the turn, which means that actions during the current turn can affect the outcome of the roll. The Ace Driver Promotion greatly increases his or her chances of escape.
If the Spy manages to escape, they will appear in your after the respective number of turns, ready for a new assignment. Even if the mission is interrupted, a successful escape may still bring back the loot or a successful pillage report.
Spies may also fail to accomplish a mission without being discovered. In this case you won't gain anything, but the Spy may continue working normally.
Captured Spies.
Captured Spies are imprisoned, but not killed, and their original owner can then attempt to "trade" with the civilization who captured the Spy, securing their release to return to active service. If the trade goes through, the Spy is immediately returned to the original owner's , ready for a new assignment. If not, the Spy is held indefinitely, but can be traded for again at any time.
Note that captured Spies still count towards your civilization's current Spy limit - if you've trained the maximum number of Spies possible, you cannot train a new Spy to replace one that gets captured.
Strategy.
In the hands of a good strategist Spies can become a lethal weapon, or a great instrument for advancing your civilization! Send them on Siphon Funds missions to get solid sums of , or send them on Steal Tech Boost missions to speed up your scientific advancement! Great Work Heists can fill your empty Great Work slots and speed up your [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory) while slowing down your opponents.
At the same time, you can hamper your opponents' development with Sabotage Production, Neutralize Governor, and Foment Unrest missions; you can even force them to fight off attacks with the Recruit Partisans mission (although this one is only possible in cities with [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhoods)).
Targeting an opponent's [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceports) with Spies is one of the most effective ways to hamper an opponent's progress towards a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Scientific Victory). If one of your rivals is progressing quickly through the technology tree, plan ahead by upgrading at least one of your Spies with the Rocket Scientist promotion, and ideally another with the Quartermaster promotion. Keep in mind your rival might have multiple Spaceport districts – it might be necessary to employ multiple Spies, or use the same Spy for multiple missions. In either case, Disguise and Linguist would also be useful promotions to have - they will allow you to perform missions much quicker, and hamper both Spaceports and [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones).
District placement can be used to make counter-espionage more effective. During Counterspy missions, Spies protect not only the District in which they're placed, but any adjacent Districts as well. Forming clusters of Districts – particularly Commercial Hubs and Industrial Zones, which are frequent targets for enemy Spies – can therefore allow a single Spy to protect multiple Districts. Use this to protect [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) if you're going for a Cultural Victory, or Spaceports and Industrial Zones if you're pursuing a Scientific Victory.
Using espionage-related [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policies) in the late game can be a game-changer. They can ensure both the success of your own Spies and the failure of rival Spies; they can also accelerate missions considerably. You should always keep an eye on your rivals' progress towards Cultural and Scientific Victories - these are the ones Spies are very effective at slowing down.