# Etemenanki (Civ6)

Etemenanki is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) or [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marsh).
Strategy.
If you have a sufficient number of Floodplains in one of your city and Marshes in a large area around you, the Etemenanki is a great Wonder for establishing a and lead over others. You don't necessarily have to pursue a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Scientific Victory) for this Wonder to be useful, since these bonuses don't scale, but they surely help you on any path.
The best use for this Wonder is in cities with a lot of Floodplains, since these are the tiles that can be improved for extra and , with potential even more yields from [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](Floods). In case of Marshes, the bonus applies to all Marshes in your empire, not just in this city, but since Marsh tiles cannot be improved unless they contain a resource, in the midgame, you will run into an issue on whether you should remove or keep these tiles. Furthermore, since this is an Ancient Era wonder, you most likely have only explored the area around your , so unless you are playing on the Wetlands map or have the Rainfall setting as Wet, it is impossible to know how many Marsh tiles are near you to plan accordingly.
For that reason, this Wonder is best for [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) due to their [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias) of Floodplains, or, to a lesser extent, [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam) due to their [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marsh) starting bias. If you build this Wonder, make sure to combine it with the [Lady%20of%20the%20Reeds%20and%20Marshes%20%28Civ6%29](Lady of the Reeds and Marshes) pantheon (you can check out the yields provided by this combination in the photo provided). Later in the game, you can consider using [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserves) to exploit them for not being improved. The [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower) and [Biosph%C3%A8re%20%28Civ6%29](Biosphère) can help boost the [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) of these Marshes.