# Ethiopian (Civ5)

The Ethiopian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in '. They were included again in '.
Strategy.
Ethiopia is a purely "defensive" civilization. Their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) is based on [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) count, in which their [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) will be granted a combat bonus when going up against the units from civilizations with more cities than Ethiopia. So to make use of this bonus, keep your empire small and build some military units to defend your lands. Don't forget to support your cities with defensive [Building%20%28Civ5%29](structures).
Their [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](unique building), the [Stele%20%28Civ5%29](Stele), gives them a nice boost right from the start of the game (because it replaces the first building available in the game, the [Monument%20%28Civ5%29](Monument)), allowing the Ethiopians to be among the first nations to establish a [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](religion). Use this to your advantage and tailor a religion to help you achieve any [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) condition other than [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination).
In the dawn of the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era), the Ethiopians also have access to the [Mehal%20Sefari%20%28Civ5%29](Mehal Sefari), their unique replacement for the [Rifleman%20%28Civ5%29](Rifleman). In addition to the combat bonus in rough [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain), the Mefal Sefari receives an extra combat bonus when fighting near the Ethiopian . Needless to say, this will make your enemies think twice before attacking your lands!
Although Ethiopia's unique ability suggests that one play with a low number of cities, the bonus from the Stele could also become a potential to establish a religion as early as possible by means of expansion. If one does not wish to utilize the Ethiopians' unique ability, it is possible to create a large and expansive empire with a strong religion. Be forewarned, however, that having a large empire makes it more difficult to acquire the needed to adopt [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies) and [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](ideological tenets), and is especially counterproductive when trying to win a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory) (for which Ethiopia is well-suited).