# Exodus of the Evangelists (Civ6)

Exodus of the Evangelists is a [Golden%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) from the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is available from the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) to the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) and uses a Wildcard slot.
Strategy.
The points are not what people get Exodus of the Evangelists for. If founding a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) is an important part of your strategy, there's no reason to wait a whole [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) to do so. Of course, this card has less of an opportunity cost than its Golden Age Dedication counterpart: if you fail to found a religion, you can simply swap the card out for something else, whereas in a standard game, you're now stuck with a worthless Dedication for the entire hard-earned Golden Age. You mainly run this card to jumpstart the process of spreading your religion to nearby [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), since it gives all [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) and [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles) an extra 2 charges and 2 . If spreading a religion is your goal, the earlier you run this card, the better. The longer you wait, the more likely nearby cities are to adopt another religion, so you will have to spend extra trying to extirpate the existing religions. Any [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) that aims for an early [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory) or simply benefits from establishing a religious foundation in nearby areas should run this card.