# Eyjafjallajökull (Civ6)

Eyjafjallajökull is a 2-tile impassable available in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" with the . Eyjafjallajökull may be found on or [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow). Its tiles provide +1 , +2 , and +2 to adjacent tiles.
In "", discovering Eyjafjallajökull grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
In "," Eyjafjallajökull is considered a [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcano). On eruption, it gives medium yields and most likely damages buildings and districts. Eyjafjallajökull's eruptions are infrequent, but it is always active. Its tiles provide +1 , +1 , and +2 Appeal to adjacent tiles.
Strategy.
Each Eyjafjallajökull tile provides +1 and +2 (1 in "Gathering Storm") to adjacent non-wonder tiles (see diagram). However, as with all impassable wonders, the individual wonder tiles of Eyjafjallajökull offer no benefits, and cannot be developed or improved. Eyjafjallajökull is usually most effective very close to a city, since its [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) spawn means that a city founded near it will have some trouble supporting itself unless it works the tiles holding the Food adjacency bonus, and even then it's advisable to have some [Camp%20%28Civ6%29](Camps) in the city to be safe.
In , however, settling on this wonder is almost always much more worth it thanks to its newfound property of being a special type of [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcano). Its eruptions are very likely to add significant extra , , and yields to adjacent tiles, enough so that working the volcanic soil with [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvements) is well worth the potential loss of Population. It will especially be a boon to [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia) and [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canada), civilizations whose abilities support founding a Tundra city.