# Factory (Civ6)

The Factory is an advanced [Production%20%28Civ6%29](production) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and requires a [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop) (or one of its replacements).
Strategy.
The regional bonus adds a second layer to players' planning of district and [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) locations. On top of maximizing [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus), one Industrial Zone within 6 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) of multiple cities can help extend the bonuses from its regional buildings with minimal construction costs. Besides placing an Industrial Zone strategically to suit the locations of nearby [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers), the player can also plan the other way around by settling later cities strategically to be within the 6-tile range of an existing Industrial Zone - preferably that of an early and high- city that can construct a Factory quickly. The regional bonuses can give the new cities a jump start in .
The [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineer) [James%20Watt%20%28Civ6%29](James Watt) can be used to instantly build a Workshop and a Factory in an Industrial Zone, and give all Factories in the empire +2 . [Nikola%20Tesla%20%28Civ6%29](Nikola Tesla) can extend the reach of the regional bonuses of a single Industrial Zone while adding +2 to regional buildings in that Industrial Zone. The [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus of [Toronto%20%28Civ6%29](Toronto)/[Mexico%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Mexico City) increases the range of every Factory's bonus from 6 to 9 tiles, which can add a much-needed boost to cities farther away from one's Industrial Zones.
Building three Factories triggers the for [Class%20Struggle%20%28Civ6%29](Class Struggle).
In "", each industrial [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) with 6 or more s gives an additional +2 in each Factory.
In "", multiple Factories within the 6-tile range will all draw without providing extra bonus. Thus it is advisable to avoid overlapping Factory coverage unless it is to enable the construction of [Ruhr%20Valley%20%28Civ6%29](Ruhr Valley) or to enable [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29%23Multiple%20Power%20Plants](extra Coal Power Plants) late in the game.