# Farm (Civ6)

The Farm is the basic agricultural improvement in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" and is available without any technological research. Initially, it can be constructed only on flatland [Grassland%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland), [Plains%20%28Civ6%29](Plains), or [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), but researching [Civil%20Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Engineering) enables Farms to be built on [Grassland%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland Hills) and [Plains%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Plains Hills).
Strategy.
Farms are one of the two basic tile improvements (along with the [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mine)) which can be built on land without a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource). They are the main booster of , and along with the [Camp%20%28Civ6%29](Camp) and the [Pasture%20%28Civ6%29](Pasture), provide additional from the very start of the game. This makes them the main [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) [Population%20%28Civ6%29%23Growth%20mechanics](growth) booster throughout the game. Farms can be built on non-[Desert%20%28Civ6%29](desert) and non-[Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](tundra) flat lands, which are the most prevalent [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) in "Civilization VI". However, unlike other improvements, Farms' yields don't improve automatically with technology - rather, they gain [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses).
To utilize the adjacency bonus of [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) starting in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), a Farm needs to be adjacent to two more Farms. The best formation for this purpose is a triangle of tiles (which can be expanded to a diamond-shape of four tiles). This way every Farm in the formation gets adjacency bonus. It is worth noting that the adjacent Farms do not have to be from the same city, or even the same civilization, for the Farm adjacency bonus to trigger.
Later in the game cities require a large amount of to maintain growth. The only way to achieve large production is through the adjacency bonus of Farms. So, plan ahead where such farming triangles and diamonds can be placed, because you will be using it for most of the game (and the same layout will serve to trigger the adjacency bonus of the later [Replaceable%20Parts%20%28Civ6%29](Replaceable Parts) from the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era)). Usually, there will be multiple areas available per city at first. But soon, various s and [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders) take over the available spots. Use Map Pins to plan ahead where those s and Wonders will be and identify where your primary tiles will be through elimination. [Civil%20Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Engineering) enables Farms to be built on [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) from the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) onward. That will give more flexibility to farming triangles and diamonds. It is OK to remove and rebuild tile improvements over time. However, placement of s and Wonders is permanent. If you haven't planned ahead, you may find no possible ways to have significant production for an old city, which is also likely an important production center.
The in-game [Civilopedia](Civilopedia) states that "Constructing farms adjacent to other Farms provides bonuses to Housing." This, however, is incorrect - it provides only bonuses.
In "", [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil) provides some interesting possibilities for siting Farms in previously unsuitable locations, among other things.
Building a Farm over a resource triggers the for [Irrigation%20%28Civ6%29](Irrigation). Building six Farms triggers the for Feudalism.