# Fascism (advance) (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Fascism is a particularly harsh form of , in which personal freedom and privacy are continuously under attack. The military runs the government, and is, understandably, very strong. Although are , Fascist states slowly and the economy is always poor.
Leaders hell-bent on conquering the world will find Fascism ideally suited to their aims, as the people will unflaggingly support their imperialistic lust. The Fascist unit is such a zealot, fighting with unwavering determination and no regard for his own life.
Great Library entry.
Fascism was one of the most controversial and oppressive forms of government ever conceived. It was borne out of the disillusionment with the ineffectual government, chaotic economy and lack of leadership in post-World War I Italy. These conditions provided the perfect atmosphere for the glorification of militaristic, authoritarian ideals. In 1919, Benito Mussolini founded the fascist movement in Milan, Italy. On October 28, 1922, Mussolini, accompanied by his black-shirted followers, staged a march on Rome, demanding that he be appointed prime minister and threatening to take over the government by force if he was refused. The king caved to his demands, inviting Mussolini to form a government. An assault on leftist political forces soon followed as groups of armed fascists stormed the headquarters of leftist parties, assaulting and even murdering their membership. The following January, Mussolini outlawed all political parties but the Fascist party, rendering Italy a totalitarian state.
The principle fascist regimes of the 20th century, in Italy from 1922-43, Germany from 1933-45 and Spain during 1939-75, were intensely nationalistic, violent, oppressive nations defined by a few distinct characteristics. The absolute primacy of the state, the submission of the individual will to the unified will of the state and the total obedience to a single leader, who embodies the state. The virtues of combat, conquest and the military are held in high esteem, while liberal democracy, rationalism and bourgeois values are violently denigrated. Fascist leaders often infused their rule with an element of mysticism, expressing the sanctity of the state and even invoking folk heroes and popular music to foment a sanctimonious and fanatical dedication from adherents. The word fascism is derived from the Italian word "fascismo," itself derived from the Latin word "fasces," a bundle of wooden rods wrapped around an axe. The fasces were symbols of authority in ancient Rome, and Mussolini adopted it as an emblem of his movement in 1919, heralding the rebirth of the Roman Empire.