# Fascism (government) (CTP1)

Fascism is a form of [Government%20%28CTP1%29](government) in "". Its effects are average on growth, good on production, average on science, bad on gold, and excellent on military.
Summary.
Fascism rules with cruelty and lies, turning patriots into monsters while building a war machine unmatched for any medium empire. Fascism is the only government to allow the Fascist. 
Great Library entry.
Fascism holds that the state is supreme over the individual, therefore making it the responsibility of all individuals to work together for the betterment of the state. The term Fascism was first coined by Benito Mussolini in Italy to describe his new expansionist government. The same type of government appeared in Spain, Japan, South Africa, Argentina, and a number of other countries. Factors contributing to the rise of Fascism included military or economic disaster, a weak central government, or from a philosophy of racial superiority. For example, the Weimar Republic's failure to control inflation and to negotiate a reasonable peace a number of other countries. Factors contributing to the rise of Fascism included military or economic disaster, a weak central government, or from a philosophy of racial superiority. For example, the Weimar Republic's failure to control inflation and to negotiate a reasonable peace with the western powers after World War I led to a complete collapse of the German economy and political system. Into this political vacuum the Nazi marched, using slogans of racial rights to mask brutality, theft, and mass genocide. Fifty million deaths later, after the end of the World War, Germany left a trail of horror, death, and tragedy in its wake.