# Feitoria (Civ5)

Game Info.
[List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5%23Unique%20Tile%20Improvements](Unique improvement) of the [Portuguese%20%28Civ5%29](Portuguese) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Requires [Navigation%20%28Civ5%29](Navigation).
Strategy.
The Feitoria allows the Portuguese to use [Resources%20%28Civ5%29%23Luxury%20Resources](luxury resources) of [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states) without even having them as allies, which provides a great advantage. Research Navigation, then send out [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers) to all city-states whose resources interest you!
The Feitoria presents the most original idea for an improvement in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" and its expansions; however, its implementation is so dreadfully obtuse that it renders the entire improvement close to being worthless. This improvement is only useful when built in the [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) of a city-state with which you are not allied - if you are its ally, you'll get the luxury anyway, and you can't trade it away in either case. The problem is that the Feitoria has to be built by a Worker, making it more convenient to construct in the territory of a nearby city-state, but you are overwhelmingly more likely to be allied with city-states right next to you than ones across the [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map). Since Portugal can buy with early on to grow their [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) to make up for the fact that they don't want to send internal s, and it's generally easier to complete quests of city-states next to you, the Feitoria seems counter-synergistic with Portugal's ability. In order for this improvement to be useful, your Worker has to embark and cross the oceans at a painfully slow speed, without any guarantee it will arrive safe and sound unless you send a [Military%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](military unit) along to protect it.
There is a workaround to this problem, albeit a convoluted one: send a land-based military unit to capture a Worker from a distant city-state, make peace with it, and remove your military unit from the city-state's territory. You can then use the captured Worker to build a Feitoria and delete it.
Once you construct the Feitoria, you will have access to the city-state's luxury resource(s) for as long as it exists. The Feitoria will also help you defend that city-state in case someone attempts to annex it; moreover, you may not have a chance to stay away from such conflict, given that pillaging the Feitoria means that the attacker also declares war on you!