# Feitoria (Civ6)

The Feitoria is a unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) of the [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portuguese) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built by the [Nau%20%28Civ6%29](Nau) and must be on a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) or [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) adjacent to land and a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus](bonus) or [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](luxury resource) in the [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) of another civilization or [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) with whom you have [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29%23Open%20Borders](Open Borders).
Strategy.
The Feitoria makes a great comeback in "Civilization VI", and while it retains the unique concept from its "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" [Feitoria%20%28Civ5%29](counterpart), the design and implementation are so much improved that the improvement is quite useful.
First and foremost, the Feitoria is now built by the Nau, a Caravel replacement, which means your [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) no longer have to brave the waves and cross the oceans. The construction of Feitorias, therefore, is reliable, fast, and efficient. Furthermore, Feitorias can now be constructed in territory of both city-states and any civilizations with which you have Open Borders (meaning that you can't build Feitorias in an opponent's territory while at war with them). Due to their unique nature, being the only improvement that has to be built in foreign territory, the Feitoria comes with a few quirks:
When combined with the Portuguese [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability), each Feitoria actually grants 6 and 1.5 to Portuguese s. Remember, because of the restriction on where Portugal can send their s, it is useless to place Feitorias where you can't send s. However, since the Feitoria has to be built next to a bonus or luxury resource, including water resources, use it to strategically block good Harbor locations of the opponents' coastal cities. As long as those cities are directly on the coast, you can still send s to them even without them having Harbors, so this will not hurt you. Also, use Feitorias to block [Kampung%20%28Civ6%29](Kampung) and [Polder%20%28Civ6%29](Polder) placements if [Indonesian%20%28Civ6%29](Indonesia) and the [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Netherlands) are in the game. Although you can always build Feitorias in city-states' territory as long as you are not at war with them due to [Jo%C3%A3o%20III%20%28Civ6%29](João III's) ability, it is probably best to save the build charges for a major civilization. Since city-states' infrastructure is often underdeveloped, s sent to them without any special bonus (such as the one for being [Kumasi%20%28Civ6%29](Kumasi's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain)) are less bountiful.
There are certain games where there are not a lot of spots inside cities of major civilizations where you can put Feitorias, a fun but niche strategy in this situation would be to create an artificial Feitoria city. First settle a city with plenty of space for Feitorias (ideally this city spot should be within the trade range of many of your cities, and only close to one other empire, so that you can later nullify the Loyalty pressure from that empire by a Cultural Alliance), pre-plan where to place them, purchase the tiles necessary for the Feitorias, position enough Naus close to the designated Feitoria tiles and then hand the city over to your trading partner and form a Cultural Alliance with them. Then, move your Naus in and proceed to place as many Feitorias as possible. This, in addition to the [Wisselbanken%20%28Civ6%29](Wisselbanken) policy card and the [Democracy%20%28Civ6%29](Democracy) government, allows every to this city to yield significantly more and .