# Feudalism (Civ6)

Feudalism is a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building 6 [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms). 
Strategy.
Feudalism describes the most mature type of social relationships during the Middle Ages, where the fully developed class society is formed as a pyramid, with the common people at the base and the ruler and at the top. He or she has the power to distribute control over the land of the kingdom to the nobles, who in turn distribute parts of their lands to minor nobles, who in turn own the common people living on their land. Everyone in this society knows his or her place and what he or she is supposed to do, which ensures that the system works smoothly (to the extent possible). History proves that this is the most efficient societal organization for the technical level of the time.
Developing Feudalism is the key to continued social development in the Middle Ages, unlocking most further Civics. It is also the first Civic to make some Policies obsolete, and replace them with more modern ones. Maybe most importantly, Feudalism unlocks the [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) for [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) (perhaps by a form of 'bulk-farming' and labor sharing), which is described below.
Triangles of Farms are the way to go for maximum benefit. The ideal situation would arise if a single tile is surrounded on all six sides by farmed tiles, in which case it would get a +3 Bonus, with the 'edge' Farms each getting a +1 bonus. However, such situations are rare, since it would require a specific terrain without any other resources or features. If the number of adjacent Farms is odd, the bonus will get rounded down (1 adjacent Farm grants nothing, 3 adjacent Farms grant 1 more , etc.) This works for [Terrace%20Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Terrace Farms) as well, but Terrace Farms and regular Farms do not grant bonuses to one another.
In [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan), these minor nobles found a need for a steadfast warrior to protect their lands, and so came the rise of the [Samurai%20%28Civ6%29](Samurai) class. This powerful replacement for the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) should always be a focus for Japan's civic development.