# Fez (Civ6)

Fez is a scientific [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "".
Strategy.
A religiously oriented empire - or one able to pump out a lot of [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) and [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles), at least - will get the best usage from Fez's paltry [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus. While small [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) are easy to convert, it is unlikely to be worth the one-time boost to . On the other hand, a populous city can result in a sizable bonus, but the number of charges needed to convert Citizens is likely quite high, especially if other [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religions) are already present in the city. Consequently, players who want to maximize the utility of Fez's Suzerain bonus may hold off on converting their own cities until they have a high Population.
Another unit available to aid in converting the masses includes the [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Band) with the [Religious%20Rock%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Rock) promotion, which converts the majority Religion of that city to the Religion founded by the player. A [Warrior%20Monk%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior Monk) with the [Disciples%20%28Civ6%29](Disciples) promotion applies religious pressure to nearby cities every time it kills a non-[Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) unit.
Some civilizations also can make better usage of Fez with abilities to convert cities, sometimes in one turn. These include:
Even though it is a scientific [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state), it should not be treated as such. It can be quite useful in non-science oriented games, that focus on faith, culture, or on victory types that don't require building a lot of [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), so the player can gain through other means such as [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29](beliefs) like Cross-Cultural Dialogue, which gives player science the more they spread a religion and such.