# Flanking and Support (Civ6)

Flanking bonus and Support bonus are two types of [Combat%20%28Civ6%29](combat) bonuses in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are granted to [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) when they are grouped together in adjacent [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) to surround the target of an attack and force the enemy to fight on more than one front, or to give support to each other during defense. In the first case this bonus is known as a "Flanking bonus," and in the second as a "Support bonus." Since Flanking bonuses can theoretically stack up to 6 times and Support bonuses up to 10 times, they can turn the tide of a battle if used correctly.
For the sake of brevity, Flanking bonus and Support bonus will be collectively referred to as "Flanking and Support" in this article.
Common rules.
Both Flanking and Support share quite a few similarities:
Flanking.
After Military Tradition is researched, units gain the ability to provide Flanking. The attacker will gain 2 Combat Strength for each friendly unit adjacent to the target of the attack. However, there are a few rules to this:
If the targeted enemy is surrounded by 6 land tiles, the maximum number of Flanking stacks that can be earned is 5, since the unit that conducts the attack does not count. However, the theoretical 6 Flanking stacks can be gained when at least one tile adjacent to the enemy is a water tile occupied by a friendly naval unit, and the unit that conducts the attack does so amphibiously. Basically, in that case, the enemy is surrounded by all 6 fronts, both land and water, and since the attacker attacks from a water tile with a friendly ship, all 6 tiles provide Flanking to the attack.
The easiest way to take advantage of this is to always remember to move all units into position before any of them launch an attack, so that all can benefit from the maximum Flanking possible. When your unit kills and displaces an enemy unit in an adjacent tile, it can provide Flanking to another battle one tile away from its original position, so do take that into consideration.
Support.
Similar to Flanking, once Military Tradition is researched, your units can support each other when one gets attacked. The defender will gain 2 Combat Strength for each adjacent friendly unit. Below are a few rules that apply to Support:
Since embarked land units still provide Support, the maximum number of Support stacks is 10, which can be earned when the defending unit is surrounded by 5 water tiles, each occupied by a friendly embarked unit and a naval unit.
To take advantage of Support, units with low Combat Strength like recon or ranged units should be placed behind the melee frontline to provide extra sturdiness. Wounded units should also be retreated to the back line to heal and provide Support to the frontline at the same time. Also, try to take out ranged units quickly if possible, since their damage pierces any Support provided to your units. Of course, it is more advantageous to get your hit in before your enemies get the chance to, but if you cannot finish the kill before your turn ends, make sure your units end their turn close to one another.
The rules for [Air%20combat%20%28Civ6%29%23Interception](Interception) Support are slightly different and are divided into two categories: air unit and non-air unit Interception.