# Flood Barrier (Civ6)

The Flood Barrier is an advanced engineering [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) in "". It is built in the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center).
Strategy.
This building is a must-have for any city on the coast whose seashore doesn't consist of predominantly highland tiles (either [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) or such that aren't defined as Coastal Lowland). For such cities land is already scarcer than for inland cities, and having some of that land submerged in the later stages of the game is no fun at all, especially if the submerged tiles contain or [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders). [Climate%20%28Civ6%29](Climate change) is practically inescapable after the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era), and it can ruin your strategic goals for any coastal city. Granted, you can salvage some lost land with late game [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvements) such as the [Seastead%20%28Civ6%29](Seastead), but the usefulness of coastal tiles can rarely match that of land tiles.
The catch when building Flood Barriers is that their price goes up along with climate change! Sometimes the price will practically double in the course of the construction (if the climate keeps worsening) and you will witness a never-ending project bogging down your production queue forever. And the only way to construct a Flood Barrier instantly is if you're the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of [Valletta%20%28Civ6%29](Valletta). This is why it's advisable to build Flood Barriers as soon as you're able, instead of waiting until the water rises to your chin. You can, however, use [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineer) charges to aid in construction, each providing 20% of the cost.
The cost of the Flood Barrier depends on the number of coastal lowland tiles within the city borders, but there are a couple of ways to reduce it. Do not purchase lowland tiles before building the barrier; they will still be protected if incorporated later. Allocating the tiles to a different city will also decrease the cost of building the improvement. If they are later swapped back to the city that has built the Flood Barrier, they will be protected from flooding.
Allowing a City Center to flood or purposefully settling on a flooded tile will prevent the construction or repair of any City Center building, including Flood Barriers.