# Flourishing of the Arts (Civ5)

Flourishing of the Arts is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It was added in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)". It is part of the [Aesthetics%20%28Civ5%29](Aesthetics) tree and requires [Cultural%20Centers%20%28Civ5%29](Cultural Centers) and [Fine%20Arts%20%28Civ5%29](Fine Arts).
When the right basis has been laid, cultural development in a society could become spectacular enough to usher in a Golden Age. With this Policy, great inspiration comes to all your citizens, whether they dabble with culture or not. This effect is particularly strong in cities which have constructed amazing buildings, which can serve as inspiration for the artists to really outdo themselves.
Strategy.
This powerful mid-level Policy has both a long-term and an immediate effect, and both have the result of increasing your total output, so you should aim at adopting it as soon as possible. Since it depends on both level 1 Policies, it stands to reason that this should be the third Policy in the tree you adopt, unless you really need a [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Artist) at this very moment (in which case you should go for the other level 2 Policy). 
This Policy is the more effective the more cities you have with [Wonders%20%28Civ5%29](Wonders) in them. Note that the number of Wonders in each city doesn't matter - even one will trigger the Culture increase. On the other hand, a single city with many Wonders in it won't have a greater Culture increase - the bonus is still capped at 33%. Also note that only World Wonders (such as the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ5%29](Great Library)) apply, and not National Wonders (such as the [National%20Epic%20%28Civ5%29](National Epic)).