# Food (Civ4)

Food ({{Food4}}) is one of the three basic economic inputs found in "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)". It is produced by [Tile%20%28Civ4%29](tiles) when they are [Worker%20%28Civ4%29](worked) by population in a [City%20%28Civ4%29](city). See the [Production%20%28Civ4%29](Production) article for more info.
For each unit of [Population%20%28Civ4%29](Population), two (2) units of food are consumed {{FoodEaten4}}. For a city's population to remain stable, [Citizen%20%28Civ4%29](Citizens) must work [Tile%20%28Civ4%29](tiles) such that the total yield of Food {{Food4}} is equal to the amount of food consumed {{FoodEaten4}}.
If {{food4}} is "less" than {{FoodEaten4}}, such that there is a negative net food yield {{FoodRed4}}, then the city will shrink, and its food reserves will be consumed. If all food reserves are consumed, then the city will enter Starvation, and the city will lose a unit of Population. If food reserves are reduced exactly to zero, there will be no Starvation, and no Population will be lost; population is lost only if the food reserves would drop to less than zero.
If {{food4}} is greater than {{FoodEaten4}}, then the food bar will be filled; if it is totally filled, then the city's population will grow by one (1). If the city contains a [Granary%20%28Civ4%29](Granary), then the food bar will start at 50% {{food4}} after growth.
Terrain.
Food is produced inherently by all types of [Terrain%20%28Civ4%29](terrain) with these exceptions:
Tile Improvements.
Additional food may be generated by these [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ4%29](tile improvements):
Resources.
All [Resource%20%28Civ4%29%23Food%20Resources](food resources) ({{Banana4}} Bananas, {{Clam4}} Clams, {{Corn4}} Corn, {{Cow4}} Cows, {{Crab4}} Crabs, {{Deer4}} Deer, {{Fish4}} Fish, {{Pig4}} Pigs, {{Rice4}} Rice, {{Sheep4}} Sheep, and {{Wheat4}} Wheat) generate food. These resources add +1 {{Food4}} Food to their tile even before they are improved and some more when they are improved. The luxury resources [Sugar%20%28Civ4%29](Sugar) ({{Sugar4}}) and [Whale%20%28Civ4%29](Whales) ({{Whale4}}) generate food without any improvements, as well. In addition, [Spices%20%28Civ4%29](Spices) ({{Spices4}}) and [Wine%20%28Civ4%29](Wine) ({{Wine4}}) generate food when improved.