# Forcefield (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The Forcefield introduces a level of city defense that is nearly impenetrable. It is the most effective form of city defense in the game.
Great Library entry.
The rapid development of weapons and vehicle technology throughout the modern and genetic ages brought conventional warfare to dangerous new levels. Cities were ill equipped to defend themselves against newer, more advanced assault craft. Whereas city walls, ballista towers and battlements were suitable for 19th century combat, they often provided little more than an obstacle to a post-modern offensive army. With the development of chaos theory and the explosion in new understanding about the nature of chaotic systems, scientists began to design theoretical models that mimicked the "forcefields" spoken of in countless science fiction books. Not until researchers discovered the unified theory of everything did forcefield development moved from theory to reality. Scientists developed a massive dome-shaped layer of an extremely stable form of carbon called carbon-60 "buckyballs." When the forcefield detected high mass or energy (akin to a projectile or energy beam weapon) it solidified, linking carbon to carbon in a solid shield with the hardness and resiliency of pure diamond. The first cities to employ this technology were able to withstand substantial attacks from hover infantry, tanks and cruise missiles. Finally, city defense technology had risen to the level of offensive warfare technology.