# Forest (Civ5)

A Forest is a type of [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29%23Terrain%20Features](terrain feature) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Game Info.
Terrain feature found on [Tundra%20%28Civ5%29](Tundra), [Plains%20%28Civ5%29](Plains), and [Grassland%20%28Civ5%29](Grassland) tiles.
Strategy.
Forests present interesting opportunities, such as some unique [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resources) like and , and a natural defensive bonus. They also provide a one-time boost to a nearby city's process when cut down, which can be used strategically. [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ5%29](Lumber Mills), [Camp%20%28Civ5%29](Camps), and [Trading%20Post%20%28Civ5%29](Trading Posts) can be constructed in Forests without cutting them down, but ordering any other [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](tile improvements) will cause them to be removed (still providing the one-time boost).
Forests on certain terrains are very important, because they replace the base yield and so in certain cases are effectively "improvements" to the base terrain yield. Try to preserve them there should you settle a city in the Tundra or on Grassland. They may prove a hindrance or help on Hills, depending on the yield required – chopping them down and [Mine%20%28Civ5%29](mining) them may prove helpful.
Also, the Celts and the [Iroquois%20%28Civ5%29](Iroquois) have [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique abilities) and [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) which make a very effective use of Forests - when playing as one of these [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations), search out and settle in or near Forests. Note that the Iroquois do best with an advanced start where the Lumber Mill improvement is already available and may suffer in earlier [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras) without it.