# Fort (Civ6)

The Fort is a defensive [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It requires [Siege%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Tactics) and can be built on any featureless land [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile), or [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil).
The Roman Fort is functionally identical to the standard Fort, but is built by the [Roman%20%28Civ6%29](Roman) [Legion%20%28Civ6%29](Legion). It does not count as a unique improvement or grant +4 [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) when built, nor can it trigger the for [Ballistics%20%28Civ6%29](Ballistics).
In the [Zombie%20Defense%20%28Civ6%29](Zombie Defense) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), the Fort and Roman Fort deal minor (10 [HP](HP)) damage to hostile units passing through them.
Strategy.
Attacking and expanding may be what wins games (especially for players who are trying for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory)), but defending well can deter aggressive players and make them think twice about launching an attack on you. This is when Forts come in handy. Have some [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineers) build them at choke points in your [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) or in other strategic locations along your [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders), then station some units there to fight off any invaders. Place Forts on [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) for best results.
A Fort grants the unit on it a total of +10 Defense Strength, regardless of who builds it and whose unit is on it. A poorly placed Fort (e.g., one in the middle of open flat land) can easily be swarmed by enemies and used in their favor. Note that [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](religious units) also receive a fortification bonus (which applies to their Religious Strength) when positioned on a tile with a Fort.
[Polish%20%28Civ6%29](Poland) can build Forts to [Culture%20Bomb%20%28Civ6%29](annex) the surrounding tiles, thus giving them a way to claim new territory and steal [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) from opponents who settle nearby while also converting their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) to [Jadwiga%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga's) [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion). The Poles should always keep a few Military Engineers around to use for this purpose.
While it functions identically to a standard Fort, the Roman Fort is built by a Legion rather than a Military Engineer. This means that the Romans have access to Forts as soon as they research [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working) rather than Siege Tactics, effectively allowing them to start consolidating their defenses two [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) earlier than other [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations). By having their Legions build these in strategic locations around their territory, the Romans can make their lands virtually unassailable in the early stages of the game.