# Freeciv

Freeciv (also known as "The Freeciv Project") is a [4X](4X) strategy game with [single%20player](single player) and [multiplayer](multiplayer) game modes. The project has evolved into a [game%20engine](game engine) playable on the PC , , and platforms, or on the web. The engine enables [community](community)-created [DLC](DLC) for making games with customized rules and content. "Default" rules resemble "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)", but expanded and more modern evolutions are quite popular.
The game is available in over 30 languages, free to download and play, and can also be played online from any device with a web browser.
Versions.
The project originally started as an emulation of "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](Sid Meier's Civilization)" for UNIX-based platforms, but has since evolved into one of the longest running open-source game communities in history. It was originally released in January [1996](1996), prior to "Civilization II". A modernized version 2.6 was released in July 2018. A public beta of the greatly expanded 3.0 has since been released, and is the version currently running on the web.
Modes/Rules.
The user community has created historic "Civ1" and "Civ2" compatibility modes which closely emulate [Sid%20Meier](Sid Meier)'s commercial games. However, the "default" ruleset has evolved past the older rules. It implements new concepts and improvements from later ""[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civ)"-like" strategy games. This includes "Civ2Civ3" hybrid rules and the newest "Multiplayer II Evolution" released in .
Beginners can select the "Start Scenario Game" option, which includes a tutorial scenario - an ordinary game but with lots of on-screen advice.
Links from this wiki.
"For convenience of comparison, especially from the lists on [overview%20page](overview page)s, any page on the "Freeciv" website can be linked from an individual page of this website. Use the same name with " (Freeciv)" added. Where the "Freeciv" page name is the same/similar to the overview page, create a page here, using the overview page form (so that templates will link to it), linking to the "Freeciv" site's equivalent."