# Free Thought (Civ5)

Free Thought is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism) tree and requires {{Link5|Secularism}}. In "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" it requires [Humanism%20%28Civ5%29](Humanism).
It can be a revolutionary concept that allowing free thought to develop is beneficial to all! Especially when you live in a backward, retrograde, traditionalist society, ruled by a despot. Nevertheless, stimulating the free thought of everyone in society transfers immediately into greater flow of ideas, which in turn helps the country's scientific development immensely.
Strategy.
This is the tree's uber-Policy! It both upgrades one of the central science buildings, the [University%20%28Civ5%29](University) (which now increases base {{Science5}} output by a total of 50%), and adds {{Science5}} production to the [Trading%20Post%20%28Civ5%29](Trading Post) tile improvement. {{Gold5}}-oriented empires will get great immediate benefit from this Policy, since they usually build this type of improvement more. But any empire with lots of [Jungle%20%28Civ5%29](jungles) will benefit as well: the Trading Post is the only improvement which can be built in a jungle without destroying it, and its native +2 {{Science5}} yield is then upgraded by the improvement to a total of +3, which is then upgraded by the 50% bonus of the University!
Acquiring this Policy is a great strategy for accelerating tech progression for any empire, even one that doesn't intend to develop the whole tree. You just need one other Policy before that ([Humanism%20%28Civ5%29](Humanism)), and you'll get a serious boost in raw {{Science5}} production, as well as faster [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Scientist) progression.
For players pursuing a [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](science victory), getting this Policy should be a very high priority. They should develop another Policy before rushing this one, though, so the recommended progression is [Secularism%20%28Civ5%29](Secularism), then [Humanism%20%28Civ5%29](Humanism), then Free Thought.