# Freight (Civ2)

Strategy.
Upon construction of Freight, the player is prompted to select its {{Link|2|commodity}} from up to four options (three trade goods, or {{Food2|y|y}} supplies). The player can consult the {{Link|2|Trade Advisor|sec=Supply and Demand|"Supply And Demand" submenu}} to review potential destinations.
Freight has the same {{Production2|p|y}} cost as Caravans, but moves twice as fast and provides a 50% bonus to both the revenue on delivery, and the route's total {{Trade2|y}} value.{{refn|name=trade}} By the time Freight is available, certain technologies will have reduced the lump-sum bonus from establishing trade routes; replacing existing Caravans will help maximize trade value.
Wonder rushing.
Freight can also be used to hurry {{Link|2|production}} of {{Link|2|Wonder}}s: trade units entering a player's own city building a Wonder gain an additional option to convert their entire {{Production2|y}} value to the production box, rather than the 50% provided by manual [disband](disband)ment. This can be done even by units returning to their [home%20city](home city), and is not dependent on the unit's commodity. Stockpiling freight ahead of time is a useful means of rushing a Wonder as soon as its prerequisite advance is obtained.
Civilopedia entry.
Freight units are the modern day equivalent of the trade caravans in the ancient world. Whereas in early history raw materials, trade goods, food, and manufactured items were transported by camel or wagon, modern shipments are transported by a variety of methods including trucks and railroads. The speed and convenience of modern transportation methods allows civilizations to set up supply routes and move large quantities of merchandise and trade goods farther and faster than ever.
Modding.
Freight is defined on Line 50 of the {{mono|@UNITS}} section of {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Rules|sec=Units|Rules.txt}}. Only this unit provides the 50% bonus to trade route revenue. It plays the unique sound effect {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Sounds|sec=Units|{{mono|DIESEL.WAV}}}} on delivery.