# French (Civ5)

City of Light ("Brave New World")
The French people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
The [Foreign%20Legion%20%28Civ5%29](Foreign Legion) is a French [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique unit) in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization V" and '. In ', it is replaced by the [Chateau%20%28Civ5%29](Chateau) (the French [Unique%20improvement%20%28Civ5%29](unique improvement)), but remains available to any civilization through the [Volunteer%20Army%20%28Civ5%29](Volunteer Army) [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](ideological tenet) or allied militaristic [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states).
Strategy.
The French civilization is aimed plainly at achieving cultural dominance, and thus pursuing a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory). Both their vanilla and "Brave New World" [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique abilities) focus on that, although the new state of affairs is even more pronounced in that direction, because of their new improvement, the Chateau. Not only does it help defend their lands, but it also provides extra {{Culture5}} for the empire, so use every opportunity to build Chateaux after researching [Chivalry%20%28Civ5%29](Chivalry).
To make use of the unique components of the French, it is best that you develop France as a heavily centralized cultural civilization. Set [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technologies) providing cultural [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) and [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders) as your priority, and try to at least make friends with cultured city-states. This way, you will also be able to adopt [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies) faster thanks to the abundance of {{Culture5}}. Most importantly, build every World Wonder with multiple [Great%20Work%20%28Civ5%29](Great Work) slots in the {{Capital5}}! This will double their usefulness, thanks to France's new "City of Light" ability, and give you a jump start at heavily influencing other civilizations through {{Tourism5}}. (Note that the ability affects only wonders and other buildings to which a {{Tourism5}} bonus applies, not those that directly contribute to {{Tourism5}} - for example, the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ5%29](Eiffel Tower) isn't affected.) To do this, make sure your {{Capital5}} has the latest advancements in {{Production5}} so that it can build wonders quickly.
In addition, the French are also a surprisingly good military civilization. Their unique [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance Era) military unit, the [Musketeer%20%28Civ5%29](Musketeer), gives the French an edge in the middle game, allowing them to expand more easily if they need to conquer new lands with resources.
However, it's generally not very advisable to expand too much - a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory), even in "Brave New World", is most easily achieved by relatively small empires.