# Fusion Plant (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Fusion plants replicate the nearly limitless energy capabilities of the Sun to power . Production is increased with this safer, more efficient power source.
Great Library entry.
In 1998, construction on the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor, or ITER, began. It was designed to generate 1.5 billion watts of fusion power continuously. The $10 billion experiment, a partnership between the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, was declared a success in 2009. Although it provided substantial insight into fusion technology, commercial fusion reactors did not become a reality until late in the 21st century. Advances in nano-assembly, chaos theory and high temperature superconductors made safe, effective fusion reactors possible.
Fusion became the most environmentally clean power source the world had known. It generated no pollutants, greenhouse gases and a fraction of the radioactivity that fission-reaction nuclear power plants did. Fusion reactors were much safer, with no serious threat from control system failures. Unlike a fission reactor, which could catastrophically meltdown in the case of a systems failure, fusion reactors merely cooled off - the plasma cooled and reactions ceased. The abundance of deuterium in the world's oceans combined with the ability to breed tritium within the reactor itself meant that fusion reactors were a virtually inexhaustible supply of energy.