# Gaia Theory (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The discovery of Gaia Theory unleashes the potential for destruction on an unprecedented level. in nanotechnology allow for the creation of nanites that can seek and destroy any manmade entity. It also allows for breakthroughs in nanite pollution control systems.
Once players build the Wonder, n empires may build s. Capable of a attack that annihilates any trace of humanity, s are the most destructive unit in the game.
Great Library entry.
Gaia theory developed out of the same environmental preservation philosophy that spawned the ecotopian movement. With the discovery of nano-machines, the world was finally capable of implementing nanotechnology on a grand scale. Whereas nano-assembly enabled the construction of objects in nanite factories, nano-machines enabled the creation of sub-microscopic machines that could perform nearly any function. With this new technology, ecotopians conceived of a radical new approach to repairing the ecological damage wrought at the hands of post-modern human existence. Utilizing nanites designed to seek out any man-industrial by-products such as toxic waste and non-naturally occurring chemicals, they could return an ecologically devastated area to "what nature had intended." 
Although this technology was originally intended for environmental cleanup, it was soon adapted by extreme factions of ecotopian terrorists who sought to condemn any nation that produces more than trace amounts of pollution. Their ultimate creation, the Eco-Ranger was designed as the ultimate nanite cleansing device. Armed with nanites designed to destroy any non-natural by-product, building or object, it utterly eradicates any trace of humanity within the range of the blast. The notion of "what nature had intended" had been taken to a violent, abominable extreme, and the new technology threatened to undo six millennia worth of human progress.