# Gaia Controller (wonder) (CTP2)

The Gaia Controller is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Work on the Gaia Controller can begin as soon as any [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20CTP2](civilization) completes the [Solaris%20Project%20%28CTP2%29](Solaris Project). Players must build a [Gaia%20Controller%20Core%20%28CTP2%29](Gaia Controller Core) in ten of their [City%20%28CTP2%29](cities) and at least ten [Gaia%20Satellite%20%28CTP2%29](Gaia Satellites) as well. Although more than ten Controller Cores will not be necessary, one can build as many as 20 Satellites to increase the coverage radius of [Obelisk%20%28CTP2%29](Obelisks). Finally, one must place Obelisks at strategic locations across the [Map%20%28CTP2%29](map).
Once enough Obelisks exist to cover sixty percent of the map, a player may initialize the Gaia Controller. During the initialization process, which takes several turns, a player must vigilantly defend the cities in which Controllers and Satellites exist, as well as ensure that no enemy destroys an Obelisk through pillaging the tile. The first player to successfully initialize the Gaia Controller wins a [Victory%20%28CTP2%29%23Scientific](Scientific Victory).
Great Library entry.
The Gaia Controller is a highly advanced utopian device capable of producing a limitless supply of resources. It employs a matter-to-energy-to-matter conversion technology discovered with the completion of the Solaris Project. A network of Gaia Satellites circles the globe collecting space debris, converting it to energy. They then beam the energy down to receptors on the surface known as Obelisks. The Obelisks themselves, employing millions of nanites, scour their immediate surroundings for excess matter (i.e. pollution) and convert that into energy as well. All of this energy is beamed to cities that contain Gaia Controller Cores, which monitor the system, control the flow and, most importantly, enable the conversion of energy back into matter. With this system, worldwide pollution is virtually eliminated, waste products of all kinds are reusable and the world has a limitless supply of matter for nanotechnological construction. Having overcome scarcity, which is, historically, a major impetus for war, nations have an unprecedented opportunity to live in peace and harmony.