# Gaia Controller Core (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The Gaia Controller Core Improvement is an integral part of the Gaia Controller device. Once there are Controller Cores in several , they act as a distributed system, coordinating the Gaia Satellites and Obelisks in a grand-scale matter-to-energy conversion operation. Controller Cores also process energy back into matter, giving a limitless supply of raw materials.
Great Library entry.
The Gaia Controller was the greatest scientific achievement of the 23rd century. Its development was borne out of research into Gaia theory, which employed nanotechnology to dramatically reduce pollution. However, Gaia-theory-based applications for pollution reduction had a range limited to a few hundred miles. Scientists began to envision a global pollution reduction system. One possible solution, proposed by noted scientist David White, was to create a system that converted the actual matter that comprised pollution into energy. It would simultaneously clean up the environment and provide an energy source.
The Solaris Project was the experiment that proved that safe conversion from matter to energy was possible. A highly secretive endeavor, its primary research took place on a satellite laboratory. By sending a probe into the center of the sun, Solaris Project scientists were able to unlock the secrets of converting matter into energy back into matter. Soon after this discovery, they began construction on the Gaia Controller, a global matter converter that would provide limitless non-polluting energy.
The Gaia Controller was comprised of three distinct groups of componentry. A system of small satellites circled the planet, collecting space debris, solar energy and various other sources of matter. Once collected the satellites converted the matter to energy, periodically beaming it down to obelisks placed at regular intervals on the surface. The obelisks were the primary matter collecting entities in the system, sending out vast groups of nanites designed to hunt out polluting agents in the air, water and earth. They also acted as receptacles for energy collected from satellites. Obelisks distributed energy to the various Gaia controller cores in cities around the world. The controller cores enabled operators to oversee the system, distribute and control energy and provide cities with a limitless supply of energy for the creation of new matter.