# Galleass (Civ5)

Game Info.
First ranged naval unit in the game.
Strategy.
The Galleass is a powerful [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Medieval Era) ship that was used by countries in and near the Mediterranean Sea in the 1500s and 1600s. Still depending on the sail-oar combination, the Galleass can't enter [Ocean%20%28Civ5%29](deep ocean), and its bulk makes it slower than the [Trireme%20%28Civ5%29](Trireme); however, it possesses an on-board projectile launcher, which allows it to attack with impunity from 2 tiles away, both in the sea and on land. This makes it very dangerous for both naval and land units, and even [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities). Use it to support naval and land armies (if the latter are acting sufficiently close to the sea, of course) for total control of land and sea.
One of the [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions) eventually available to the Galleass increases its attack range by 1. A Galleass with this promotion can outrange [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities), allowing you to bombard [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) cities in safety, then capture them with a melee ship. Of course, this requires a [Coast%20%28Civ5%29](shallow) route from one of your cities to the enemy's city, which will probably be hard to find unless you are playing on a small Archipelago or similar [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map).
Galleasses have one less point than the standard Trireme. While inferior at combat, Triremes will still be superior at exploration in the Medieval Era.
When promoting the unit, there are two distinct paths: either anti-naval, or anti-land capabilities. Consider current enemies' strengths when making the choice.