# Gameplay (Civ4)

Diplomacy.
Diplomacy in "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" generally involves the trading of goods. Different trade options require different advancements to unlock, and some things may only be traded for certain other things (e.g., per turns deals must be compensated by another per turn deal). Players may trade [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ4](technologies), [Resource%20%28Civ4%29](resources) (including luxuries such as [Wine%20%28Civ4%29](Wine)), [Map%20%28Civ4%29](maps) (to reveal information about the rest of the world), and [Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28Civ4%29](gold). Advanced diplomacy options include the creation of trade embargoes, the promising of military aid, and the adoption of particular [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ4](civics) and/or a [Religion%20%28Civ4%29](religion).
The reasoning behind diplomacy is more transparent when compared to "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)": the Diplomacy window now displays not only the other [Leaders%20%28Civ4%29](leaders') attitudes (gracious, friendly, pleased, cautious, annoyed, furious), but "why" they feel that way (e.g., "-2: You refused to stop trading with our worst enemies!"). When a leader is friendly or gracious towards one's civilization, they are more likely to accept deals without unfair bargaining.
Another new feature is the new abilities of the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ4%29](United Nations). The United Nations wonder allows passing global [Elections%20%28Civ4%29](resolutions) (e.g., the [Elections%20%28Civ4%29%23No%20Nukes](Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty)) in addition to granting access to diplomatic victory. Unlike real-world resolutions, "Civilization IVs resolutions are binding, except for in ', in which you have the option of defying resolutions.
Combat.
Units no longer have separate attack and defense values. Instead, they have a base strength that is increased or decreased depending on the situation. The unit's strength also affects how much damage it can do. Prior to the 1.52 patch, the unit's damage was calculated using its current strength (which also acts as life/[hit%20points](hit points) and changes accordingly). After the patch, the damage is calculated from the base strength - this means that badly damaged modern units can still easily win battles against obsolete units. Instead of generic increases in rank, individual units gain specific types of combat experience, such as bonuses against specific types of enemies or abilities like faster movement in forests. In total, there are 41 different types of unit [Promotion%20%28Civ4%29](promotions). It is also now possible for players to examine "combat odds" before attacking, giving the player a good sense as to whether a given attack will succeed or not, factoring in all the various bonuses and penalties associated with terrain, unit capabilities, and so forth.
The 1.61 patch brought further changes, and now damaged units attack or defend with the average of their current and full strengths.
Production and trade.
The game features 32 types of resources, all of which are tradeable and require a [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ4%29](tile improvement) (such as a [Mine%20%28Civ4%29](Mine) or a [Well%20%28Civ4%29](Well)) to be utilized. Some resources are required for certain units, buildings, or wonders ([Iron%20%28Civ4%29](Iron), [Copper%20%28Civ4%29](Copper)); some may double the production speed of a certain wonder ([Marble%20%28Civ4%29](Marble), [Aluminum%20%28Civ4%29](Aluminum)); and some act as luxuries like in "Civ III", providing either happiness or health to all cities connected to them ([Fur%20%28Civ4%29](Fur), [Dye%20%28Civ4%29](Dye), [Incense%20%28Civ4%29](Incense)). There are also three types of culture goods provided by World Wonders, rather than resources, that can be traded: [Hit%20Singles%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Singles), [Hit%20Movies%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Movies) and [Hit%20Musicals%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Musicals). To trade goods or to send them to other cities within one's [Borders%20%28Civ4%29](borders), they must have some form of connection between the goods and the city. In the later game, this connection can be through ocean tiles, but in the early game, it is limited to roads and rivers. Cities on the same river or (with [Fishing%20%28Civ4%29](Fishing)) coastline are automatically connected for trading purposes.
Production (also - as it was in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Sid Meier's Colonization)" - known as "Hammers," the icon that represents it) is sometimes used as a resource-term on "Civilization". Each tile provides a city with a certain number of "Hammers", which collect up in the city to produce buildings and units. Unlike in "Civilization III", the player is no longer able to transfer all production from one project to another, but all production on a certain project will remain. For example, if the player is building a temple but decides to switch to a harbor, production on the harbor will have to start from scratch. However, the temple stays in the building queue and retains its previous progress, aside from some decay over time. As an ancillary rule, if one culture is building a World Wonder but another empire completes it first, the losing culture is compensated with gold proportional to the amount of Production points lost.
Religion.
The concept of separate religions is new to Civ4. In previous games, players could build [Temple](Temple)s and [Cathedral](Cathedral)s, but the religion was just a generic feature of happiness and culture. There are now seven distinct religions in the game - [Buddhism%20%28Civ4%29](Buddhism), [Christianity%20%28Civ4%29](Christianity), [Confucianism%20%28Civ4%29](Confucianism), [Hinduism%20%28Civ4%29](Hinduism), [Islam%20%28Civ4%29](Islam), [Judaism%20%28Civ4%29](Judaism), and [Taoism%20%28Civ4%29](Taoism). For reasons of , there are no bonuses or traits specific to any religion, except that each religion is tied to a specific technological advance, and the four later religions (Christianity, Confucianism, Islam, and Taoism) begin with a free Missionary unit for reasons of game balance. If a player is the first to discover a certain religion on the tech tree, they can "found" the new religion; a city with no religion or the newest city in that civilization's empire becomes that religion's holy city. The player can then build [Monastery%20%28Civ4%29](Monasteries) and train [Missionary%20%28Civ4%29](Missionaries) to spread their religion(s) to other cities, both foreign and domestic. ("[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Sid Meier's Colonization)" also has [Missionaries%20%28Col%29](Missionaries), which spread their version of Christianity.)
Religion factors into a number of existing game mechanics. Civs that share a common state religion will be friendly in their diplomatic dealings; conversely, civs with differing state religions will be hostile to each other. Securing an open-borders agreement, sending in Missionaries and then encouraging the other civ to convert is a relatively painless way of encouraging international tranquility. The founder of a religion also receives an economic benefit: if that civ expends a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ4%29](Great Prophet) at their religion's holy city, they will receive that religion's most sacred building (the [Kashi%20Vishwanath%20%28Civ4%29](Kashi Vishwanath), the [Church%20of%20the%20Nativity%20%28Civ4%29](Church of the Nativity), etc.), which provides a 1-gold-per-city tithe from every city hosting that religion. Finally, if a civ has 1) a state religion, 2) that religion's holy city and 3) that religion's sacred building, they will receive line-of-sight in every city hosting said religion, providing additional intelligence and a good way to keep an eye on foreign progress.
The new civics model of government also has a strong effect on religion: players can found a state religion, declare religious freedom, or take other actions that have profound impacts on the religious lives of their subjects. If a civilization has no declared religion, they are exempt from all described bonuses and penalties.
Civilizations and leaders.
Eight of the eighteen civilizations have two leaders. Each leader offers bonuses based on what conditions were exceptional during the historical reign of that leader, and each leader acts as differently as if they were a separate civilization and have distinct personalities. Several historic figures not used in previous "Civ" games are [AI](AI) leaders in "Civ4", including: [Asoka%20%28Civ4%29](Asoka), [Cyrus%20%28Civ4%29](Cyrus II), [Roosevelt%20%28Civ4%29](Franklin D. Roosevelt), [Washington%20%28Civ4%29](George Washington), [Hatshepsut%20%28Civ4%29](Hatshepsut), [Mansa%20Musa%20%28Civ4%29](Mansa Musa), [Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ4%29](Kublai Khan), [Peter%20%28Civ4%29](Peter the Great), [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ4%29](Qin Shi Huang), [Saladin%20%28Civ4%29](Saladin) (though he was a hidden leader in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)"), and [Victoria%20%28Civ4%29](Queen Victoria).
All civilizations have some element of uniqueness and all leaders have certain traits based on their achievements in real life. While these are limited, they have some effect on a player's game plan. All civilizations also have a unique unit which can be military (such as [Persian%20%28Civ4%29](Persian) [Immortal%20%28Civ4%29](Immortals)) or economic (such as [Indian%20%28Civ4%29](Indian) [Fast%20Worker%20%28Civ4%29](Fast Workers)). Below is a summary of the unique features of each civilization.
Technologies.
As in prior versions of "Civilization", there are technologies for the civilizations to discover. There are a total of 85 technologies in the game, up from 80 in "Civilization III". Technologies have many uses; they can be used for trade, for the construction of new buildings and wonders, for the founding of new religions, or for the development of new forms of government. To discover modern technologies, it is first necessary to discover the technologies that lead up to it (for example, [Democracy%20%28Civ4%29](Democracy) can only be discovered after the [Printing%20Press%20%28Civ4%29](Printing Press)).
Technology development is flexible: certain technologies can be discovered in more than just one way. The game has a very useful tech tree, which can be accessed by pressing F6 on the keyboard. The tech tree displays all the techs in the game and their relations with one another. It is possible to select even unavailable techs for research. This will cause all the prerequisite techs to be researched in order. If multiple paths lead to the target tech, the civilization will pick the shortest. The final tech or group of techs, as in previous versions, are called "[Future%20Tech%20%28Civ4%29](Future Tech)", followed by a number. Instead of simply adding on to the final score, however, as in earlier games, each city receives a happiness and [Health%20%28Civ4%29](health) bonus for each Future Tech discovered.
In single-player games, the discovery of each tech during the game is accompanied by a famous quotation from history which is voiced by [Leonard%20Nimoy](Leonard Nimoy) of "Star Trek" fame. The sources of the quotes range from the Buddha, [Charles%20Darwin](Charles Darwin), Brillat-Savarin, Steve Wozniak, [Henry%20Ford](Henry Ford), the Bible all the way to Lonnie Donegan, and Dan Quayle.
Scoring system.
In "Civilization IV" the leadership skills of players are compared to a subjective list of twenty of the best or worst leaders in history, similar to the list in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](Sid Meier's Civilization)". The score is based on a number of factors, including military growth and success, technological advancement, construction of wonders and economic growth.
The released version of the game abandoned "Civilization III"'s graded scale. In "Civ3", a spectacular victory on the easiest difficulty would provide the player with only a middling score, and the best titles were only awarded to players attempting the hardest difficulties. The original "Civ4", on the other hand, allows the player to obtain any score on any difficulty level. As of the v1.61 patch, the grading system has returned to the curved-by-difficulty scale.
New features.
Many aspects of "Civilization IV" are new to the series (though some appear in spinoffs or "[Colonization%20%28game%29](Colonization)"). Gameplay innovations include: