# Gandhi (Civ5)

Mohandas Gandhi (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was the ideological leader of the Indian Independence movement. He leads the [Indian%20%28Civ5%29](Indians) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
In-Game.
Gandhi speaks . (Though his first language was , he knew how to speak Hindi as well.) On his diplomacy screen, he is standing on the bank of the . Concept art showed him holding a staff.
[Capital%20%28Civ5%29](Capital): [Delhi](Delhi)
[Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](Unique Unit): [War%20Elephant%20%28Civ5%29](War Elephant)
[Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](Unique Building): [Mughal%20Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Mughal Fort)
[Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](Unique Ability): Population Growth
Voice Actor: [Avtar%20Sandhu](Avtar Sandhu)
Personality and Behavior.
The biggest thing that stands out about Gandhi is his nuke ratings of 12. These are 4 points ahead of the closest [Leaders%20%28Civ5%29](leaders) ([Catherine%20%28Civ5%29](Catherine), [Montezuma%20%28Civ5%29](Montezuma), and [Shaka%20%28Civ5%29](Shaka) with an 8 in both categories), making him hands down the most nuke-happy leader in the game. This is intended more as a shout-out to [Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](the original "Civilization") than anything else: in this game, the normally peaceful [Mohandas%20Gandhi%20%28Civ1%29](Gandhi) started to behave much more aggressively around the time [Nuclear%20%28Civ1%29](nukes) were invented. (There is a longstanding rumor that an integer underflow error caused by players adopting [Democracy%20%28government%29%20%28Civ1%29](Democracy) as their [Government%20%28Civ1%29](government) was responsible for this behavior, but [Sid%20Meier](Sid Meier) denied this in .) Given the nature of [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ5%29](nuclear weapons) in real life, however, his preference for nuclear weapons may be a strategy to deter from actual battling.
It should be noted that in spite of building a lot of nuclear weapons, Gandhi is the leader least likely to declare wars, and is himself not very willing to engage in wars. In fact, he is one of the few leaders who is more willing to declare friendship with other [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations) and also one of the most loyal allies (befitting his pacifistic nature in real life). However, Gandhi is also one of the least forgiving leaders, and being a warmonger will cause him to denounce you or even use nuclear weapons against you.
Gandhi tends to raise a small empire consisting of very populous and well-developed [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities).
While the Indians will tend to have a small army, their cities will be some of the best defended in the game.
Gandhi will normally try to win a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory) followed by a [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](scientific) or [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory). [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](Domination victory) will be very unlikely for obvious reasons.
Lines.
Gandhi speaks Hindi in a very formal and respectful way. It is a little bit different from the modern Hindi that many Indians speak as it contains many pure Hindi words, whereas modern Hindi is very much influenced by other regional languages such as Urdu and Marathi. He uses the word "aap", which is a more respectful way of saying "you" in Hindi, unlike the modern "tum".
Intro.
Greetings President Gandhi, great souled leader of India! You are the ruler of one of the oldest countries in the world with history stretching back almost 10,000 years. A spiritual country, India is the birthplace of three of the world's great religions - Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. This is a passionate land of music and color and it is a land of great wealth and grinding poverty. For centuries, India was divided into kingdoms who fought constantly with each other and against outside invaders. In the 12th century AD, India was conquered by Muslim Turks. In the early 17th century, the English arrived. Through a combination of shrewd diplomacy and technological superiority, they conquered your fragmented nation. England remained in power for some two centuries until driven out by a rising wave of Indian nationalism, a peaceful rebellion unlike any before seen in history.
Gandhi, your people look to you to lead them to even greater heights of glory! Can you help your people realize their great potential, to once again become the world's center of arts, culture and religion? Can you build a civilization that will stand the test of time?