# Genetic Age (CTP2)

The Genetic Age is one of the [Age%20%28CTP2%29](ages) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It is the fourth age in the base game, coming after the [Modern%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Modern Age) and before the [Diamond%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Diamond Age).
Three different time spans are given for the Genetic Age: 1957-2085 (from the discovery of DNA to the end of the last hostilities of World War III), 1957-2093 (from the discovery of DNA to the signing of the treaty that created the Federation of Planet Earth), and 1957-2150 (from the discovery of DNA to the Union of the Earth-Moon system). It began in the year 1957 AD with the discovery of DNA during the Geo-Physical year 1957-1958 in which space satellites were also launched by American and Russian civilizations as well as Exploration of Antarctica and the Moon by robotic probes and runs until about 2150 AD when another World Treaty is eventually signed that enlarges the Federation of Earth to include orbital space plus the Moon and even beyond the Earth-Moon System. Technically from this point on no more wars were fought among the various nation-states of the Earthlings, but Earth Colonies continued to declare independence after the date of 2150, most notably the planet [Mars](Mars). The remaining 215 years (2085-2300) are part of the Diamond Age, and [2300%20AD](2300 AD) is the chronological end of the game.
Great Library entry.
With the deciphering of the mysteries of human life at the hands of researchers involved in the Human Genome Project, the Genetic Age built on the solid foundation of scientific achievement established in the Modern Age. What distinguished the Genetic Age from the Modern Age was an collective increase in responsibility towards humanity and the environment. Whereas technology continued to streamline the process of manufacturing, it also found equally powerful ways to help curb pollution. Human mastery of the physical world continued at breakneck pace with the applications of chaos theory and unified physics. More than anything else, the achievements of the Genetic Age began to blur the lines between human and machine. Neural interfaces enabled people to control computers with their thoughts. Medical scientists began to apply their knowledge of genetics towards not only the eradication of disease but the customization of all forms of life. As the computer revolutionized the lives of people in the 20th century, so did genetics irrevocably alter life in the 21st century.