# Georgian (Civ6)

The Georgian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". They are led by [Tamar%20%28Civ6%29](Tamar), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are white and orange.
The Georgians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Strength in Unity, which allows them to receive [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) bonuses for the Dedications they make at the beginning of [Golden%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden) and [Heroic%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Heroic Ages), and grants them extra towards [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](walls). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsur) (which replaces the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms)), and their unique [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) is the [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhe) (which replaces the [Renaissance%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Walls)).
In the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), the Georgians' civilization ability functions differently. They still receive their bonus toward walls, but in a Golden Age, they receive an additional Wildcard slot in their [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government) and can use Dark Age [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "None"
Upon the release of "Rise and Fall", Georgia became the butt of many jokes in the community since the civilization was hilariously underpowered. However, through many patches, tweaks, direct and indirect buffs, Georgia (especially in "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)") is now quite a solid civilization who can turn every city she has into impenetrable fortresses while racing towards a Religious, Cultural, or Diplomatic Victory.
Strength in Unity.
"Extra Era Score when in Golden and Heroic Ages".
This aspect of the Georgian civilization ability provides them an unmatched ability to chain multiple Golden Ages. In addition to being good road maps for each [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era), Golden Age Dedications normally provide powerful empire-wide benefits that can affect [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) development, [Espionage%20%28Civ6%29](espionage), expansion, exploration, military, or basic yields, but they do not provide extra sources of Era Score like Normal Age and Dark Age Dedications. This, coupled with the fact that previous Golden Ages will raise the Era Score threshold for subsequent Golden Ages, makes it incredibly tough for a civilization to stay in a Golden Age that lasts multiple eras, except for a strong domination civilization who is currently rolling over everyone. In short, this ability gives Georgia a useful and, most importantly, reliably repeatable source of Era Score that comes with the Golden Age Dedications.
The possible Dedications are listed in the table below.
In the early game, the best Dedication for Georgia is clearly either Exodus of the Evangelists or Monumentality. However, in the early [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), you probably do not generate enough to fully take advantage of either of these Dedications, so it is recommended that you go into a Dark Classical Era to prepare for a Heroic [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), when you can go and truly make the most of these two Dedications. Considering that a Heroic Age for Georgia gives them three additional sources of Era Score, this will almost always guarantee a Golden [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) as well. Later into the game when the prospect of a Religious Victory is getting harder due to the sheer number of cities other civilizations have, you need to quickly transition to a Diplomatic Victory or a Cultural Victory. Reform the Coinage can give you a huge amount of for a Diplomatic Victory, and Wish You Were Here is powerful for a Cultural Victory, so choose accordingly. Heartbeat of Steam and Bodyguard of Lies are two generalist Dedications that are helpful to all victory conditions, so they can also come in handy if needed.
The downside of this ability is that it makes Normal Ages feel extra painful. Normally, even a Dark Age is a lot more useful than a Normal Age, since you then have access to an array of powerful Dark Age policy cards, while you do not get anything out of a Normal Age. As long as your empire is not too wide, managing Loyalty in a Dark Age is totally doable. If you fall into a Normal Age as Georgia, it means you will go 40-60 turns without having your civilization ability active, while a Dark Age can help set up for future eras, so avoid Normal Ages as much as you can. You can also attempt to build the [Mahabodhi%20Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Mahabodhi Temple), the [Potala%20Palace%20%28Civ6%29](Potala Palace), and the [Taj%20Mahal%20%28Civ6%29](Taj Mahal), since they complement Georgia very well and Wonders themselves are excellent sources of Era Score. Be careful with the Taj Mahal, though, which can help you prolong your Golden Ages but also make it harder to strategically earn Dark Ages. By no means is this ability enough for you to stay golden for the entire game, so you will have to fall into a Dark Age at some point in the midgame. For the reason mentioned above, it is most likely your Industrial Era, since this era follows your two successive Golden Ages. Picking Reform the Coinage as a Dedication for the Dark Industrial Era seems reasonable, as this is the easiest one to earn Era Score out of.
Considering Georgia's gameplay revolves heavily around city-states and Protectorate Wars, below are a few repeatable sources of Era Score that relate to city-state diplomacy and warfare that Georgia can focus on:
"Extra towards Walls".
To fully understand how walls function, please review the behind-the-scene mechanics of walls and city combat [City%20combat%20%28Civ6%29%23City%20combat%20statistics](here).
This ability, combined with the buffs to the Tsikhe, helps Georgia turn all its cities into impenetrable fortresses. Walls are undoubtedly important, but a lot of players choose to forgo these buildings to invest time and into other kinds of infrastructure and only build walls when a war is declared upon them. However, this reactive playstyle can spell doom for your empire if the enemy is well-prepared with their invasion. With Georgia, Walls are so cheap (especially when you run [Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes) for a whopping 150% bonus) that you almost never need to contemplate whether or not to build them. Of course, this bonus also has an obvious synergy with your unique building. The Tsikhe is by no means an underwhelming building that should be built only once for the Era Score. Every city with fully upgraded Walls (Ancient Walls, Medieval Walls, and Tsikhe) will earn 6 after [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) is researched, boosted to 9 in Golden Ages. Considering that Georgia is a religious civilization with incentives to build Holy Sites "en masse" and will have a good generation, a Cultural Victory is a good backup for your diplomatic path when the window of a Religious Victory closes.
[Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy) is great government choice that seems tailored specifically to satisfy every need Georgia may have. Besides the fact that it has high flexibility due to its 2 Wildcard policy slots, Monarchy provides from Walls and from [Renaissance%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Walls), and boosts generation dramatically. Although [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) is great for every civilization with religious tendencies, Monarchy benefits Georgia a lot more in the long run.
Glory of the World, Kingdom and Faith.
"Doubled s when sent to a city-state of her majority Religion".
Aside from boosting their Era Score, the Georgians have two overarching priorities under Tamar: founding a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) and spreading it to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). They should research [Astrology%20%28Civ6%29](Astrology) early on to construct a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) and a [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine) while sending [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scouts) to explore the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). Considering that Georgia under Tamar has no upper hand in founding a religion compared any other civilization, this has to be prioritized from the very beginning of the game. They should hold on to their s until they've founded a religion, at which point they should use their [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) and [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles) to convert every city-state they meet and spread out their s to attain [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerainty) with as many of them as possible. With [Diplomatic%20League%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic League) slotted, the first sent to a city-state of Tamar's majority religion will turn into 3, possibly granting her immediate Suzerainty over the city-state and some Era Score. Also, remember that this ability only works if Georgia has a majority religion, so founding one for yourself is not enough - you have to make sure your Religion is established in at least 50% of your cities.
The , , , , and bonuses Georgia receives from attaining Suzerainty will make their cities extremely prosperous and productive (especially if they have the right kinds of s and buildings). However, since they have to convert city-states instead of focusing their on converting other major civilizations like other religious civilizations can, they need to generate even more than usual if they want to win a Religious Victory. In "Gathering Storm", they have a good incentive to adopt Choral Music, Holy Order, [Mosque%20%28Civ6%29](Mosque), and Tithe/Pilgrimage as their beliefs and use their massive amounts of to purchase [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) en masse, especially if the game lasts so long that winning a Religious Victory becomes impractical.
Slotting the [Merchant%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Confederation) policy card is an essential boost in Georgia's continued prosperity. With it and cards that boost generation like [Charismatic%20Leader%20%28Civ6%29](Charismatic Leader), Diplomatic League, [Gunboat%20Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](Gunboat Diplomacy), and [Containment%20%28Civ6%29](Containment), they will have a steady and scaling income for the rest of the game. Again, Monarchy fits Georgia like a bespoke suit: it provides faster generation, and extra and from their walls. If you are close to a Religious Victory and want to finish off the game on a religious note, Theocracy may be a better choice, but in any other situations, Monarchy just gives Georgia a lot more.
Furthermore, in "Gathering Storm", each Suzerainty will provide 1 per turn (doubling to 2 per turn with the [Orsz%C3%A1gh%C3%A1z%20%28Civ6%29](Orsz치gh치z)), giving you a strong edge in the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress).
"Religion".
It will be a huge oversight if which beliefs should be taken is not talked about. 
"Bonus from defeated units".
Similar to [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo)'s ability, Tamar earns on kills. Compared to the extra when declaring a Protectorate War she used to have before the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update), this is a lot less and phases out of relevance pretty quickly, considering Georgia is a civilization that gears towards a religious and diplomatic victory. However, it does have at least 2 advantages over the old ability:
Khevsur.
The most efficient way to make use of the Khevsur is to buy it with when you choose to build [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel) and adopt [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) as your [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government). However, since Georgia's generation power is quite restricted and extra from the [Tsikhe%20%28Civ6%29](Tsikhe) does not come into play until the next era (which happens to be when the Khevsur becomes [obsolete](obsolete)), it is very hard to use this unit within its limited timeframe. Moreover, since you can decide only where you settle and not where your opponents do, the Combat Strength bonus when fighting in [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) will most likely benefit you only on defense. When Georgia is under attack, a Khevsur defending on a Hills tile can have the same Combat Strength as a [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman), and it exerts [Zone%20of%20control%20%28Civ6%29](zone of control) on all nearby tiles. Whether for offense or defense, the Khevsur is commonly used in combination with the [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy) government, or the Oligarchic Legacy Wildcard policy.
In "Gathering Storm", this unit receives two indirect buffs. First, with [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights) costing 60 more (standing at 220 per Knight), these units become much more useful, since their Combat Strength is situationally on par with that of Knights, and they are a much more economical choice. Second, Military Tactics is no longer a leaf [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology), meaning you actually need to research it in order to move on to other technologies. In Vanilla and "Rise and Fall", this is not the case, as very often, civilizations can skip this technology completely, especially when they have no intention to go on a conquest, and can always unlock better units somewhere else for defensive purposes. As a result, the Khevsur often gets left in the dust, since unless 4 extra Era Score can mean a difference in terms of [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Ages), is generally worth being invested elsewhere. This major change brought by "Gathering Storm" revitalizes these units, as now they become much more incorporated into the grand strategy of their respective civilization. The April 2021 Update gives it a further buff by introducing the Man-At-Arms, a new standard unit that the Khevsur now replaces. This means if your treasury is doing well, you can prepare for the arrival of your unique unit by training Swordsmen and upgrade them. However, considering the Khevsur is most likely a defensive unit, and it is quite difficult to have a game with Georgia where your income is abundant enough to pull this off, this is rarely the way to go. If you want to go to war using this unit, build the Grand Master's Chapel, purchase Khevsurs with and they will pay themselves in thanks to Tamar's -on-kills ability 
The site of the battle in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" is actually the tile of the defender, not the attacker. Therefore, similar to other bonuses that grant extra Combat Strength when "fighting on" certain [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain), the Khevsur will receive extra Combat Strength when it attacks a unit standing on Hills, regardless of where the Khevsur stands. Also, the Khevsur will receive extra Combat Strength on defense if it gets attacked while standing on Hills.
Tsikhe.
The Tsikhe is a safeguard that dissuades even the most bloodthirsty warlords from invading Georgia. It provides twice the outer defense of the standard Renaissance Walls, turning Georgian cities into impenetrable fortresses. Georgia's civilization ability (+50% towards [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](walls)) makes this building even more potent. Moreover, it plays strongly to the Georgian unique ability of chaining multiple Golden Ages. Considering that the Tsikhe is built in the City Center (meaning that it can be built in every city), combined with [Tamar%20%28Civ6%29](Tamar's) leader ability, you are looking at a significant and output as long as you can continue your Golden Ages. After the general buff towards the Renaissance Walls that make them immune to [Siege%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Towers) and [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Rams), the Tsikhe is so tanky that it can withstand even rounds of [Bombard%20%28Civ6%29](Bombards). However, considering that this is the only piece of unique infrastructure that can be rendered obsolete with technological research, make sure you delay researching [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel) until you build your Tsikhe in every city. With its boosted and output in Golden Ages, this building can contribute meaningfully to a Cultural Victory, if you can make the best out of your civilization ability to chain Golden Ages.
[Valletta%20%28Civ6%29](Valletta's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus has excellent synergy with Georgia, since it allows you to instantly purchase walls and other City Center buildings with your massive income rather than dedicating and Turns toward building them. If Valletta isn't present in a game under the "Gathering Storm" ruleset, you can build your Tsikhe with maximum efficiency by slotting [Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes) and having an active Urban Development Treaty (a [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress) resolution) for City Center buildings. These, when combined with your civilization ability, will yield a 250% bonus.
Conversely, [Akkad%20%28Civ6%29](Akkad's) Suzerain bonus will render your Tsikhe (and all other walls) useless against melee and anti-cavalry units' attacks. If Akkad is in the game, do your best to deprive your opponents of its bonus, or even conquer it if its location makes doing so feasible.
Victory Types.
Depending on which Dedications they choose each era and which districts they focus on building, the Georgians can potentially try for any kind of victory. Going for a Religious Victory, however, is the easiest path for them to follow, and the best way to take advantage of Tamar's leader ability. Since Georgia most likely focuses on having a good output, the Golden Age bonus from their Tsikhe and extra from close relations with city-states will also help them pursue either a Cultural or [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory).
For Diplomatic Victory specifically, the Tsikhe has excellent synergy with [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy), as each Tsikhe gives +2 . Additional can be generated by building the [Foreign%20Ministry%20%28Civ6%29](Foreign Ministry), leveraging Tamar's interaction between religion and s, and choosing the [Pagoda%20%28Civ6%29](Pagoda) as their worship building. [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani), the [Orsz%C3%A1gh%C3%A1z%20%28Civ6%29](Orsz치gh치z), the [Statue%20of%20Liberty%20%28Civ6%29](Statue of Liberty), and the [Potala%20Palace%20%28Civ6%29](Potala Palace) are all helpful [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) for this victory type, and the [Mahabodhi%20Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Mahabodhi Temple) should always be high on Georgia's agenda to support them on both the religious and diplomatic paths.
Counter Strategy.
To win, Georgia needs two things: Golden Ages and city-states. To defeat them, therefore, it is best to try and deny them [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerainties) and Era Score. If encountering them in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), try to beat them to [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Villages) and [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) camps. Strength in Unity only provides its full benefits if Georgia is already experiencing a Golden Age, so an early failure to obtain one could inhibit their potential for a long period of the game. Additionally, if you have a religion, spread it to city-states to prevent Georgia from snatching every Suzerainty out from under you.
Akkad's Suzerainty bonus allows your melee and anti-cavalry units to deal full damage to walls. When equipped with such power, sieging against the Tsikhe will become much simpler. Valletta is another useful city-state you will want to deny to Georgia (especially when you are not in a position to conquer it) since it synergizes so well with the Tsikhe.