# Global Economics (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Global Economics represents the spread of corporations across national borders. Multi-national conglomerates become increasingly frequent, as well as global distribution of goods and services.
s replaces s with a more modern trade system. s can carry more than s, making easier and cheaper. enables to convert into . represents the Global Economy on a grand scale, with its entertainment products reaching nearly every market on the planet.
Great Library entry.
The Globalization of the world economy in the late 20th and early 21st century was a mixed blessing. Corporations in Europe and the United States had an opportunity to tap emerging markets in China, India, Latin America and Eastern Europe. They also sought to move their production operations to wherever they could find the least expensive labor pool and minimal of environmental regulations. This usually meant moving production operations to third-world and developing countries while keeping most management, marketing, and finance divisions in their home countries. Although the developing nations benefited from the availability of jobs, they overwhelmingly demanded unskilled, repetitive work for minimal wages and long hours. Multinational corporations were able to increase profits, but often at the expense of human rights and the environment. Moreover, as these Western businesses took their profits home, the disparity between first and third world nations grew. The economies of Western Europe and the U.S. began to soar as other nations, now indebted to multinationals for job security and economic sustenance, descended even deeper into poverty.
The spread of global capitalism demanded a vast transport system to shuttle goods, from raw materials to consumer products, around the globe. Worldwide shipping, cargo planes and rail systems comprised a huge freight transport system that fed the world economy. One of the most popular consumer products was motion pictures. Although many nations had their own film industries, Hollywood and the greater Los Angeles area was home to the largest and most successful conglomeration of movie studios in the world. By distributing its products around the world, the motion picture studios create a powerful global enterprise.