# Gold (currency) (Civ2)

 is the in-game standardized [Gold%20%28currency%29](currency) of "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)". The term is used interchangeably with taxes, one of three commercial resources derived from a 's .
Taxes' primary purpose is to pay for s: at the beginning of the player's , total maintenance costs are deducted from gross tax income. Surplus taxes are added to the [treasury](treasury) as gold, which can then be used for discretionary spending, such as , trading in , and funding . Likewise, if maintenance costs exceed income, gold is deducted from the treasury.
Acquiring gold.
Taxes are primarily earned based on the 's , which determines the allocation of cities' between , , and . Individual cities can also generate taxes directly by assigning s: each tax collector provides 3 .
 (s, s and s) increase a city's base Tax output by 50% each. is a special improvement that converts a city's entire output to taxes.
Several interactions will supply gold directly to the treasury:
Civilopedia entry.
The Taxes collected by a city are indicated by gold coin icons in the Resource Chart of the City Display. Taxes are used primarily to pay the maintenance cost of City Improvements each turn. Any tax revenues not used for maintenance of Improvements are added to your treasury. The amount of Taxes generated by the city is primarily determined by the amount of incoming Trade you have allocated to Taxes. This can be adjusted by selecting the "Change " option from the Kingdom menu.
Tax revenues can also be increased through the construction of certain City Improvements and Wonders of the World, or by converting citizens into Tax Men.
Modding.
The command "Change Money" (+) edits the selected civ's current [treasury](treasury). In the original game, inputs are capped at 30,000 and the treasury itself will not grow beyond this without ; in "", the dialog is limited to five digits, for a maximum input of 99,999.
The "ChangeMoney" can also be used to add or subtract from a player's treasury.
The tax icon is located in the left-hand grid of .
Labels for gold are located on Lines 315 and 325 in the section of ; the "" adds further definitions for interactions on Lines 777 and 829; "Test of Time" adds a fifth definition on Line 873.
Labels for taxes are located on Lines 73, 91 (vanilla), 700 (MGE), 859, and 866 (ToT).
Gold and taxes are manually defined in several .