# Gold (currency) (Civ5)

Introduction.
Ah, Gold! Gold is wonderful stuff. You can use it to build an army, to pay for a road network, to purchase buildings, to buy the friendship of a city-state and to bribe an enemy civilization.
It may be true that "money can't buy you love," but it can purchase a nuclear submarine armed with nuclear missiles, and that's not bad.
Gold, the currency - not to be confused with [Gold%20%28Civ5%29](the resource of the same name) - is the standard money unit in the game, and as such serves a number of purposes, mostly related to trade. Unlike in the real world, where currency has become the preferred representation of wealth, in the game, gold has sharply defined functions and isn't nearly as ubiquitous as in real life.
As with other main stats in the game, gold is counted in single units, which in this article are called coins.
Earning Gold.
 Gold is earned in a variety of ways, and is added to your imperial treasury (after deducting current expenses). Note that Gold is usually earned through [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities), rather than directly; for example, all terrain yields are added to the city output, and subject to additional city bonuses (or penalties), before being added to the treasury. The same is valid for the income from [International%20trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](trade routes) in "". On the other hand, gold earned (and lost) from trade agreements, or from incidental sources such as [Ancient%20ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruins), is added/deducted directly from the treasury, without being subject to bonuses or penalties. For a list of possible bonuses and penalties to Gold income from cities, see below. 
Terrain.
The land is the main source of Gold...and for some time, the only source of it. To earn Gold from the tiles around your cities, you must have Citizens work them. Note that Gold yield isn't found on the most common terrain types!
As mentioned above, the innate Gold potential of terrains is largely removed from "". Of the above list, coast and ocean tiles, as well as river, lake, and atoll tiles DO NOT have  Gold potential anymore! This makes producing Gold from the land much more difficult, especially in the beginning of the game, and makes international trading a crucial aspect of your empire's  Gold production.
Buildings.
The [Market%20%28Civ5%29](Market), [Bank%20%28Civ5%29](Bank), and [Stock%20Exchange%20%28Civ5%29](Stock Exchange) (and their replacements) all add percentage bonuses to a city's base Gold output. The [Mint%20%28Civ5%29](Mint) also adds +2 Gold to any [Gold%20%28Civ5%29](Gold) or [Silver%20%28Civ5%29](Silver) resource in the city's territory. Note that these bonuses don't affect income from [International%20trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](trade routes)!
Merchant Specialists.
Each Specialist you assign to work in a trade-related building (such as the [Market%20%28Civ5%29](Market)) earns +2 Gold.
Trade Routes.
[Trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](Trade routes) are another way to earn Gold. These are especially effective in doing so. Consider making trade routes when possible.
Be aware that trade routes may be blockaded by enemy units! In that case, Gold production from trading stops until you manage to drive away the enemy. Also, in "", the enemy units have the ability to plunder an international trade route. Plundering a Trade Route destroys it altogether, along with the trade unit that was servicing it. Plundering a trade route doesn't cost a movement point, and gives you a nice amount of Gold; a Caravan gains you a flat value of 100 Gold when plundered, and a Cargo Ship 200 Gold; these amounts stay the same throughout all eras.
Wealth Conversion.
After researching [Guilds%20%28Civ5%29](Guilds), your cities gain the ability to convert  Production into  Gold by "renting" a city's production facilities to the traders. This effectively produces more Gold for your empire, adding to the flow each turn according to the potential of the city in question.
Additional Sources.
And here are some additional sources of Gold:
Also, the [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29%23Commerce](Commerce) policy tree considerably enhances your empire's Gold production. Check it out for more info.
Finally, during a Golden Age, all land which produces at least 1 Gold produces 1 extra Gold. Make sure to use this limited time bonus by working all  Gold-providing tiles during a Golden Age! This becomes incredibly important in "", where there are a limited number of tiles that produce Gold, which means you could easily squander a major benefit of a Golden Age if you aren't aware. 
Bonuses and Penalties to City Gold Income.
Because most of your Gold is actually earned through cities, and thus subject to bonuses or penalties, you should be aware of what exactly could influence your raw income. Below is a comprehensive list of factors influencing city Gold earnings.
Spending Gold.
Unlike real life, where you can spend money to do virtually anything, the uses of Gold in the game are very specific.
The first, and most important, is Unit and Building Maintenance. You need gold to pay for everyday repairs of your buildings, feed and clothe your armies and civilian units, and keep your empire's road network in working order. These costs add up and are automatically deducted from your total gold flow each turn. (See the individual entries on the units and buildings for specific amounts. Also, note that these maintenance costs are dependent upon the [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ5%29](difficulty level)!) It isn't very clear how road/railroad costs for tiles that aren't in your territory are calculated, but they DO have cost. Any extra Gold that is left after the deduction goes directly into your treasury, ready to be used as you see fit. If, on the other hand, there isn't any extra gold left - if your maintenance costs are higher than your current income - the negative balance is deducted from your treasury until it reaches 0! For what happens in this case, see below.
The other uses of gold are strategic and depend on your decisions each turn. Here is an exact list of the ways you can spend your Gold income:
Diplomacy and Gold.
You can exchange gold with other civilizations for any number of reasons - trading it for resources, for example, to get the other civ to make peace with you, or to bribe the civ to attack a third. Gold is extremely useful in negotiations.
There are two different ways to exchange Gold:
Getting Plundered.
If the fiendish barbarians successfully conquer one of your cities, they "plunder" some of your gold and your city is instantly razed (meaning it is burnt to ashes as soon as a barbarian seizes it). If another civilization or a city-state grabs your city, it is different - they take some of your gold along with the city, which they can then annex, puppet, or raze (though it won't burn down instantly like it would if it were captured by barbarians). 
Running Out of Gold.
When your net Gold flow is negative, your treasury may eventually reach zero and you will start running a negative budget. The first bad effect of this is that the difference is deducted from your (at the rate of minus one SP for each negative gold coin), and the second is that eventually units start to disband on their own. Beware! This can seriously slow down your acquisition of new technology, which can leave you extremely vulnerable to attack by more advanced neighbors. Get your budget in order as quickly as possible!
Strategy.
In the early game you have to pay attention to your gold, because running out of it reduces your empire's output. Do not worry about making a lot of extra gold while you are developing your empire for growth. Connect cities to your capital as soon as possible for extra gold.
In the middle and late game you should start setting up your trade routes and earning some money. Prioritize buildings that improve trade route gold in cities that have the most efficient trade routes in the trade route overview. You should save your gold to buy science buildings as soon as you research the appropriate technology to boost your output faster (e.g. [Scientific%20Theory%20%28Civ5%29](Scientific Theory) for [Public%20School%20%28Civ5%29](Public School)). Research agreements are also a very good investment. If you have threatening neighbors, pay them to go to war with other civilizations - they leave you alone in the meantime.
Gold is the most important when going for a [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory), because it's essential for buying city-state votes. For a [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](scientific victory), use it to purchase science-boosting buildings, and you can also buy [Spaceship%20%28Civ5%29](Spaceship) parts if you adopted the Freedom Ideology. Upgrade and purchase units when going for a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory). It contributes very little to a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory), but all uses apply here as well.
Gold and gold per turn can also be used as a way of borrowing money. If you have a declaration of friendship with another civilization, you can exchange a gold per turn deal for a lump sum of gold. For example, if you ask for 300 Gold as a lump sum, it can be exchanged for 11 GPT on your part. As the gold deal lasts for thirty turns, you are making a repayment of 330 Gold on a loan of 300 Gold over thirty turns. This is usually useful if you need money quickly to buy units or buildings, especially during a war.
Trade your resources to the AI for a steady gold profit. Use this table to determine how much gold resources are worth. It assumes that you have made a Declaration of Friendship.