# Golf Course (Civ6)

The Golf Course is a unique of the [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
Golf Courses bring revenue and happiness to the cities in which they're built, as well as in the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Information Era). For maximum bonuses, build them next to City Centers and Entertainment Complexes. Golf Courses raise the Appeal of adjacent tiles and can even be built on [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) and [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow), which tend to have higher Appeal than other types of [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain). This can help the Scots create places for [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) if they need or additional . 
The main selling point of the Golf Course, however, is the bonus. Even at its highest, the bonus is way too insignificant at this point of the game, so think carefully before investing your and a district slot on an Entertainment Complex. Tiles adjacent to the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) are often very valuable as well, because powerful [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) such as the [Forbidden%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Forbidden City) can be built there. In order to maximize the number of tiles that receive the [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) bonus, it's often advisable to just forget about the bonus and build Golf Courses away from the City Center. Doing so allows them to supply without requiring citizens to work them, which is what Scotland cares about the most.
The biggest downside of this improvement is its [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) requirement. [Reformed%20Church%20%28Civ6%29](Reformed Church) is a leaf civic, meaning it is the last civic of its branch and not required to unlock later civics, so most civilizations with no religious tendency will ignore it along with [Theology%20%28Civ6%29](Theology) and [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right). Scotland, however, has to discover all three in order to unlock their unique improvement. In your game, if you get lucky with multiple types of [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](luxury resources), are able to build the all-important [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum), and your empire is not too wide, all your cities can reach Ecstatic status even without the extra from Golf Courses. Remember to constantly check City Status to see your level, so that you can decide for yourself when to unlock the Golf Course. If your is already at Ecstatic, there's no point in wasting your on discovering the three religious civics - you can leave it until later in the game when luxury resources and the Colosseum are no longer enough to keep your cities Ecstatic.
In "Gathering Storm", the number of bonus goes up from 1 to 2 (1 higher); however, the thresholds go up by 2 (Happy now requires 3 , which used to be 1, and Ecstatic requires 5 , which used to 3). This change to the threshold necessitates the use of Golf Courses a little bit more, since now it is harder to reach Ecstatic without Golf Courses. However, since the threshold is raised by 2, more than the buff given to the Golf Course (increased by only 1 ), this makes the Golf Course even less effective at what it is supposed to do. Undoubtedly, this is the worst unique improvement in the game, and were it not for the [Aztec%20%28Civ6%29](Aztec) [Tlachtli%20%28Civ6%29](Tlachtli), it would have been the worst piece of unique infrastructure as well. Think of this similarly to the civilization ability of [Korean%20%28Civ6%29](Korea): it serves only as an extension of your strongest ability, and should never be your focus in any situation.