# Government (Civ6)

The concept of forms of government makes a grand re-entry in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". The government represents the current command structure of your [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) - how exactly its governing bodies are organized, and what real effects this has on its development and abilities. It is one of the main ways you steer the development of your empire. 
Mechanics.
Government is a system of bonuses similar to [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion). Unlike religion, however, it doesn't have to be founded, is always active (except in the first few turns of the game), and will change completely over time. Also, the effects of government are both more powerful and more flexible: you can constantly customize your government to suit the changing circumstances of world affairs, and your own development goals. Religion, on the other hand, stays the same throughout the game. 
Your government becomes active as soon as you discover the [Code%20of%20Laws%20%28Civ6%29](Code of Laws) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) - the basis of lawful society. By necessity, this government is the very basic [Chiefdom%20%28Civ6%29](Chiefdom), since your people don't know any other ways to govern themselves as of yet. Progress through the [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ6](civics tree) will unlock other forms of government, and you will enjoy their increasingly powerful effects and possibilities. Having the right type of government that matches your overall strategy and current tactical needs is paramount for achieving [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory).
Government manifests its effects in three ways:
To establish your government, you need to place policy cards of the appropriate type in all your government's slots, forming your current political agenda. Thus you customize your government to respond to the current challenges and future goals for your empire. Note that you "must" fill all policy card slots in order to finish your turn.
Different levels of government have a different total number of slots: 4 slots for Tier 1, 6 slots for Tier 2, and 8 slots for Tier 3 (and 10 slots for Tier 4 in "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)"). Each distinct form distributes these slots in a different manner, as mentioned above.
There are ways to add more policy card slots to your government, for example by building [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders). Those slots will be added regardless of your current form of government, and will stay even if you lose control of the city with the particular Wonder. For more info on this, go [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29%23How%20to%20gain%20more%20Policy%20card%20slots](here). 
Changing Government Configuration.
The cards that occupy your government slots, and the form of government itself, cannot be changed whenever you please. There are three main ways to do that:
Every time you change government configuration, you are able to change both the form of government (Chiefdom, Classical Republic, [Autocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Autocracy), etc.), and the Policy Cards in your government slots. There are tabs in the upper end of the Government screen which allow you to either select the form of your government, or to manage your Policy Cards. Each time you develop a specific Civic which unlocks a new type of Government, the Change Government tab will be automatically selected; otherwise the other tab will be active. Of course, you do not need to change government form whenever you discover a new type.
Normally, each Policy slot must be filled by a card of the corresponding type (Military Card in a Military slot, Economic Card in an Economic slot, etc.), but Wildcard slots are exceptions: they can be filled with either a Wildcard or any of the other card types, thus allowing you to enjoy the benefits of cards for which your government does not otherwise have slots available (or for which you have already filled all available slots). Of course, you are only able to choose policy cards which you have unlocked via civic research, and which haven't become obsolete.
While your people are always eager to try out new forms of government, they are not so enthusiastic about going back to a type of government you have previously tried - to them this feels like going backwards to something antiquated. Every time you switch to a form of government you already had previously, your empire will enter several turns of [Anarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Anarchy)! How many will depend on how many times have you previously adopted that government - the formula is 2 turns + 1 per each time you adopted it before.
Legacy Bonuses.
As stated above, each form of government (except Chiefdom) offers specific bonuses; one of them is always quantifiable, appearing as a percentage value over something. By practicing a government system, your statesmen gain particular knowledge of it, which they are able to transfer whenever you switch governments - these are known as Legacy Bonuses.
Each time you start a new government, you start earning a particular Legacy Bonus based on that government's specific quantifiable bonus. The longer you keep the government, the greater your knowledge of its particulars, and the greater this Legacy Bonus will grow. The specific effect manifests itself as "x" + 1% of the bonus every several turns. The number of turns is set, but is subject to bonuses from civics. So, for example, after you practice Classical Republic, you will gain a Legacy Bonus increasing points generation; the longer you had practiced Classical Republic, the greater that bonus. Of course, since you're already earning a Legacy Bonus for your current government as well, this bonus will stack with the existing bonus, effectively increasing it the longer you keep this government.
Legacy Bonuses allow your empire to further distinguish itself from other ones - it is very rare that other empires follow exactly the same path as yours!
In "", Legacy Bonuses have been phased out - there are still 2 distinct bonuses per government, but both of them only apply while you have the respective government, and are replaced when you adopt a different one. This decision is understandable, since the 4-5% average Legacy Bonuses you usually managed to acquire didn't make a big difference anyway. However, it is possible to carry over one of the bonuses of a previously-adopted form of government with the new "Legacy" Policy Cards, which can be placed in Wildcard slots and become available after constructing a [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the corresponding tier in the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza).
Government and Diplomacy.
As in the real world, empires which have the same forms of government will feel closer, and gain a bonus to diplomatic relations. Conversely, those with different governments will suffer a penalty, souring relations. After all, a democratic society cannot see eye-to-eye with a fascist one!
"Rise and Fall" takes this relationship even further come the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), when the player gains access to a brand new [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) after developing [Ideology%20%28Civ6%29](Ideology): the Ideological War. It permits declaring a war on any empire with a different Tier 3 government, without any other preconditions.
Forms of government.
As mentioned above, all civilizations start with Chiefdom, the most ancient and basic form of government. But civic development throughout the game unlocks many more advanced forms of government which not only provide more slots for policies, but also increase the diplomatic power of your civilization. All of them are organized into tiers, which have specific gameplay effects and are developed through different parts of the game.
Up to "Rise and Fall" there were three tiers of governments in the game:
"" introduces a fourth tier of governments. These include [Synthetic%20Technocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Synthetic Technocracy), [Corporate%20Libertarianism%20%28Civ6%29](Corporate Libertarianism), and [Digital%20Democracy%20%28Civ6%29](Digital Democracy), developed during the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Information Era), and provide truly unique bonuses. However, these bonuses are paired with penalties (similar to the Dark Age wildcards). This produces the effect of streamlining the end-game development of a civilization towards a particular type of victory, to the detriment of other types.
Each of the Futuristic governments offers 10 policy slots, 5 of which are Wildcard slots. This makes them truly powerful, because of the incredible versatility the Wildcard slot offers (5 slots for whatever card you fancy, including Legacy bonus cards). Besides, these governments offer even more diplomatic power than Tier 3 governments, allowing for true end-game gambits.
List of governments.
&lt;onlyinclude&gt;
&lt;/onlyinclude&gt;
Additional government attributes.
Governors.
"Rise and Fall" adds a new gameplay element, which conceptually is an integral part of government: special agents known as "Governors" which can be assigned to cities in the world to extend your influence there. However, Governors aren't actually related to the game mechanics of government, but rather to [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) and a number of other gameplay systems, and thus won't be discussed here.
Government Plaza.
This unique was also added in the "Rise and Fall" expansion. Similarly to Governors, the district is conceptually a part of your government, while its actual effects aren't directly related to the government system, but are rather diverse. In fact, the only direct link is that the district's buildings are unlocked only after the corresponding tier of government is adopted (Tier 1 for the first building, Tier 2 for the second, etc.). Use the Government Plaza as a tool of ensuring Loyalty in a particular border city, of acquiring additional Governor Titles, and most importantly, to boost your chosen gameplay style (aggressive, expansionist, etc.).