# Governor (Civ6)

Governors are a feature added to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the "" expansion pack. They are agents of your government which may be appointed and assigned to [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) in order to boost their [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) and enhance gameplay elements. As such, they directly channel the power of the central authority in their areas of specialty.
What is a Governor?
A Governor has two main purposes:
A Governor is similar to a [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spy) in that it is a "hidden agent" (i.e., it doesn't move around the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) the way other [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) do) which is assigned directly to cities. However, the similarities end there. A Governor's main job is to ensure the Loyalty of your cities - each city with a Governor receives +8 Loyalty per turn, which is a significant boost, and is usually enough to keep it from rebelling and declaring Independence. This effect becomes active even before the Governor establishes its power in a city, meaning from the very moment you assign them there. But beyond that, Governors have additional abilities which vary from Governor to Governor - more on that later.
Unlike Spies (which, despite having distinct names, are all the same and have the same s) or (which are distinct, with distinct abilities, but are also numerous and quickly expendable), there are only seven Governors (eight if you play as [Suleiman%20%28Civ6%29](Suleiman)). Each one has distinct qualities and unique promotions (called "abilities" or "titles"), and will stay with you throughout the game. You may choose to use all seven (but you will be unable to promote each one of them to the highest level until the late game), or you may choose to use just some of them (in which case you'll be able to use their most powerful abilities earlier).
Note also that there are many [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policies) which work only in cities with Governors. Thus, their usefulness is expanded greatly and beyond their individual abilities. Look for opportunities to adjust your strategy and use your Governors to the max with the right Policies.
The same seven types of Governors are available to all players, and you don't have to compete with other players to attract them - they are always waiting for you.
Using Governors.
Acquiring Governor Titles.
In order to appoint and promote Governors, you must earn and spend Governor Titles. There are several means of acquiring titles:
Assigning Governors.
Each time you appoint a new Governor, replace them with another one, or have a Governor removed from a city by a gameplay event, you will need to choose a new place to assign them. You may also choose not to (or forget to) - unlike other game actions, this won't prevent you from ending your turn. In this case the Governor(s) will remain in the [Palace%20%28Civ6%29](Palace), sitting idle as they await their next assignment. This means that you'll be losing out on their abilities. You should never let your Governors sit idle!
Note that if you have appointed more Governors than you have cities, one or more will not be able to use their abilities. Always think ahead when choosing whether to appoint a new Governor, or promote an existing one.
At each new assignment the Governor will need a number of turns (3 turns for [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor) and [Ibrahim%20%28Grand%20Vizier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Ibrahim), 5 turns for the rest) to establish themselves in a city (appointing agents, establishing connections, consolidating power, etc.), after which they will start applying their bonus effects to that city. You may always reassign a Governor to a different city - just bear in mind that you'll spend some turns without being able to use their benefits (except the [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) boost, which transfers immediately, as stated above). Governors who are victims of a Neutralize Governor espionage mission will be removed from their cities and cannot be assigned to any city for 8 turns.
[Amani%20%28Diplomat%29%20%28Civ6%29](Amani) (the Diplomat) is also the only Governor who may be assigned not only to your own cities, but also to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). There she will act as a sort of super-[Envoy%20%28Civ6%29](envoy): her initial Ability, [Messenger%20%28Civ6%29](Messenger), gives her the power of 2 s. Note, however, that should the city-state go to war with you for whatever reason, Amani will be expelled immediately and you will lose the 2 extra s she counts as. In "", when playing as Suleiman of the [Ottoman%20%28Civ6%29](Ottomans), you will have access to [Ibrahim%20%28Grand%20Vizier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Ibrahim), a unique Governor who can be assigned to the of another civilization.
Promoting Governors.
Each Governor starts with one active ability, but can be promoted to acquire a whole range of other abilities! This is done also by acquiring Governor Titles: with each title you may either hire a new Governor or promote an existing Governor, selecting a new ability for them.
Different Governors have widely differing abilities, which enhance different parts of the game. Their descriptive names (e.g., "The Cardinal," "The Financier") give you a general idea of their specialization, but none of them are constrained strictly to this specialization (maybe save [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor), who is completely defense-oriented). Each Governor starts with only one active ability (besides the Loyalty boost effect, of course); their other abilities are unlocked via gaining titles. The slew of different Governor abilities rivals the many options for policies you may choose at any given moment of the game, in order to emphasize different aspects of development for your empire. However, bear in mind that developing Governors is non-reversible, so you should make your strategy in this aspect from the very start of the game. It is up to you and your particular strategy to make the best use of Governors' abilities!
List of Governors.
&lt;onlyinclude&gt;
&lt;/onlyinclude&gt;
Trivia.
Here's the lead designer [Anton%20Strenger](Anton Strenger) on the subject:
In previous versions of "Civilization", “governor” often referred to the [AI](AI) behavior you could set for a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) to act on your behalf. In this expansion, though, they are the opposite. Sending a Governor to a city is a way for the player to make an active decision about the development of one of their cities, and grow in a specific direction. Much like how s operate in the base game, Governors are a way to specialize your cities. The difference: Governors have their own set of unique powerful bonuses and can move between controlled cities.
During a game, players can earn up to seven Governors. Each Governor has a different skill tree of promotions. We bent a lot of existing game rules to give them the power to make a difference in your cities.
Here’s how it works: You earn points (Governor Titles) through gameplay. Then you must choose whether to spend those points on appointing a new Governor or promoting an existing one. How you choose to manage your Governors will impact your overall strategy. Go wide by covering more cities, or go tall by promoting only a few powerful governors.
As for the Governors themselves, they have unique personalities – even before you start choosing which ones to upgrade. Some thrive in taking an already established city to the next level, building [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders) and powering up [Trade%20Route%20%28Civ6%29](trade routes). Others are more suited to new cities that are constructing their first districts and claiming their first bits of land. One can be a savior during a city siege, and can make or break a city’s defense against a powerful attacking army. Though normally Governors can only work in your own cities, there is one that can be assigned to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states), affecting the [Envoy%20%28Civ6%29](Envoys) you have there. That said, none of the Governors are easily distilled into a single function.