# Gran Colombian (Civ6)

The Gran Colombian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Sim%C3%B3n%20Bol%C3%ADvar%20%28Civ6%29](Simón Bolívar), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark blue and yellow. They are available with the [Maya%20%26amp%3B%20Gran%20Colombia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Maya &amp; Gran Colombia Pack), which was released on May 21, 2020.
The Gran Colombians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Ejército Patriota, which grants their [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) +1 additional and allows them to [Promotions%20%28Civ6%29](promote) units without ending their turn. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Llanero%20%28Civ6%29](Llanero) (which replaces the [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry)), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Hacienda%20%28Civ6%29](Hacienda).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "None"
Armed with a blazing fast army, Gran Colombia is a Domination civilization through and through. Aided by the unique [Comandante%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Comandante General), Gran Colombia under [Sim%C3%B3n%20Bol%C3%ADvar%20%28Civ6%29](Simón Bolívar) will embark on a restless conquest with a speed that can be matched by no others.
Ejército Patriota.
"Extra " "Movement for all units".
Simple yet effective and powerful, all units in the Gran Colombian empire are just flat out better at overcoming terrains. Besides the obvious militaristic ramifications, civilian units also benefit a lot from this. Their [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers) are also better at claiming contested lands and their [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) will be able to get a city up and running much faster. Not to mention, you will explore your surroundings faster with your better [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scout). Just for comparison, [Mongolian%20%28Civ6%29](Mongolia) can build the [Ordu%20%28Civ6%29](Ordu), which grants only Cavalry units +1 but only if they are trained in that city, while Gran Colombia just gets for all units everywhere, without having to do anything.
Combined with a Comandante General that you will guarantee to have in [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), Gran Colombian early warfare is exceptionally lethal even though their unique unit is unlocked in [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era). Remember that the Combat Strength bonus from a Comandante General stack with that from a [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General), so if you build an early [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) and get yourself a Great General as well, all units within 2 tiles of these two Great People will run with +1 and +10 Combat Strength in total. Of course, units from all promotion lines benefit tremendously from this, but the biggest winner is siege units. Siege units are not actually disallowed to move and shoot in the same turn until [Expert%20Crew%20%28Civ6%29](Expert Crew) ; they just require their starting to be 1 greater than standard to be able to shoot after moving (so basically 3 starting is required for all siege units, except for the [Rocket%20Artillery%20%28Civ6%29](Rocket Artillery), which requires 4), all the Expert Crew does is to remove this restriction. With Gran Colombia, since every Siege unit will start with 3 , they basically have the ability to move and shoot from the get-go. Further bonuses from Great Generals will bolster their flexibility and maneuverability even more. The earliest siege unit, the [Catapult%20%28Civ6%29](Catapult), is often considered underwhelming, since it has to move into position close to the City Center to start bombarding, but it is squishy and always gets focus-fired by the enemy, so it often happens when your Catapult gets killed off even before it fires its first shot. This problem gets solved quickly with Gran Colombia, allowing them to start sieging effectively even with the Catapult.
"Promoting a unit does not end its turn".
In true Gran Colombian style, this is another simple bonus but it absolutely does the trick, as it places extra pressure on the opponents to kill Gran Colombia's units in the same turn; otherwise, they can heal back up and hit even harder with their new promotions. This bonus makes a lot of decision making processes much simpler, since you do not have to hesitate whether or not you should promote your units, heal them but end their turn or use a few low health units for one last kill or to deal the final blow to capture a city, since now you can do both tasks. The Gran Colombian army, therefore, is even more agile, hard hitting and much more difficult to kill than a regular army. This also works well with [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor's) [Embrasure%20%28Civ6%29](Embrasure) title, as you can promote your units right away or save the promotion for an easy +50 HP heal later in battles. Also, the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army) basically grants your entire army a free heal.
This bonus also applies to [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles), [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands), and [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies). Apostles always start with a promotion, two promotions if they are trained in a city to which [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha) is assigned with [Patron%20Saint%20%28Civ6%29](Patron Saint). They can be promoted twice and march in the same turn. Spies can be promoted then immediately be assigned a new task. Rock Bands can be promoted and then sent to a new venue. Overall, outside of militaristic consequences, this ability is a great quality-of-life bonus and a time saver.
Campaña Admirable / Comandante General.
The Comandante General is essentially a more versatile version of the [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General); therefore, most of the tips given for the latter unit will also apply for the former. However, Comandantes Generales have one distinct advantage over their counterparts: their military knowledge is not limited by era! As such, retiring a Comandante General as time passes in-game is not strictly necessary. That said, the retirement effect of each Comandante General is also quite powerful, so do not hesitate to retire one if you really need the boost. The passive abilities of multiple Comandantes Generales, like those of Great Generals, do not stack with one another, but passive abilities of one Comandante General do stack with those of a Great General. If you manage to earn an early Great General, your units can boast a +1 bonus on top of a +10 Combat Strength bonus as early as the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), on top of your existing bonus of your civilization.
By earning the first Comandante General at the start of the Classical Era, Gran Colombia will earn +4 Era Score, making it slightly easier to avoid a Dark Age going into the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). However, for each subsequent Comandante General, you do not earn +2 Era Score like when you earn other , but they do grant +2 Era Score the first time a unit within their radius successfully scores a kill.
Llanero.
The Llanero is a strong replacement for the Cavalry, and one that helps the Gran Colombians on their march to a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory). Apart from requiring an easily-obtained [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resource) (if anything) to train, it's very cheap to maintain and gets fully healed within two [hex](hex)es of a retiring Comandante General. Gran Colombia can have as many as four Comandantes Generales upon unlocking Llaneros, which can accompany them into battle and keep them fighting fit for a good long time.
On top of their other attributes, the Combat Strength bonus that Llaneros gain when adjacent to each other practically begs Gran Colombia to train them en masse. Six Llaneros have the same maintenance cost as two [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry), and their Combat Strength is almost as high when clustered together (not counting the bonuses they receive from Comandantes Generales and [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals)). A force of this size can completely surround an enemy [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) and prevent it from repairing damage while [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged) or [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege units) chip away at its defenses, then quickly reach and lay siege to a new city after capturing their target.
Hacienda.
Arguably the least impactful piece in the Gran Colombian toolkit, the Hacienda is more of a cherry on top for such a powerful arsenal than actual major component to victory. Unlocked in the Renaissance Era, the Hacienda is one of the latest unique improvements in the game, and it provides Gran Colombia with some welcome bonuses, but not necessary for a pure Domination civilization. Since Gran Colombia can start their conquest as soon as in Classical Era when they earn their first [Comandante%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Comandante General), by the time the Hacienda is unlocked, they most likely have more cities than they ever need, the main goal is to keep these conquered cities [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](loyal) and [Amenities%20%28Civ6%29](happy), since when you have an ultra-wide empire from all of your conquering, not every single city needs to be at their most productive. The and component of this improvement, therefore, is decent but not as beneficial to Gran Colombia as it is for other peaceful civilizations. and are great for churning out and supporting a large army, but the amount provided by one Hacienda at this time of the game is not that impressive, not to mention Gran Colombia does not have a [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias) towards Plantation Resources, and the scaling at Rapid Deployment is too late to have a strong impact.
Overall, this is a decent improvement in theory for any civilization that will not go full on conquest mode, since it provides a lot of to build up mega-cities with high Population; unfortunately, that is just not what Gran Colombia cares about. Put this improvement in your major hubs, like your or major cities that you just conquered, to keep them growing fast for extra yields, but again, your path to Victory does not rely heavily on it. Of course, the Hacienda can be more useful if you have a peaceful approach with Gran Colombia and focus on building up your infrastructure, but this civilization does not have any major bonus towards any other Victory condition outside Domination.
Victory Types.
Domination is overwhelmingly the best choice for Gran Colombia. Their units can move with blazing speed and they receive high Combat Strength bonuses from Great Generals and Comandantes Generales. Every other victory condition can be attempted by Gran Colombia, but they do not have particular skews towards those, except for Religious Victory. Although Gran Colombia does not have any bonus towards founding and spreading their Religion, their Religious units can move faster, can promote multiple times in the same turn without ending their turn, allowing them to save a lot of time and the process of spreading Religion is a bit smoother.
Counter Strategy.
The earlier you address Gran Colombia, the better, as you definitely do not want to wait until they unlock Llanero. Gran Colombia will receive a Comandante General every era, except for the Ancient Era. If you are playing as a civilization with an early militaristic advantage, you want to snuff them out completely in the early game. Overall, Gran Colombian army is equipped with high mobility and harder to kill due to the ability to promote without ending units' turns. Ranged units are exceptionally good since, with their long ranged attacks, they can focus fire to kill a unit in a single turn. Remember, high-level units need more XP to earn their next promotion, so units that have many promotions or have just recently been promoted are less of an emergency, as you do not need to focus all of your attacks to kill them in a single turn. It is also a good idea to attack a Gran Colombian army from multiple directions, especially away from your core army or from the city you are trying to protect, as the Llaneros will have to spread out, and their Great Generals and Comandante Generales will have a harder time covering every unit in their 2 tile radius.