# Grand Bazaar (Civ6)

The Grand Bazaar is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Ottoman%20%28Civ6%29](Ottoman) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It is built in the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and replaces the [Bank%20%28Civ6%29](Bank).
Strategy.
Anything a warmonger wants, the Grand Bazaar offers. With faster resource accumulation and an extra per Luxury resource at a cheaper cost than a regular Bank, the Grand Bazaar adds more fuel to the conquest machine of the Ottomans. Most importantly, this building is available at just the right time to increase accumulation for the [Janissary%20%28Civ6%29](Janissaries) and [Bombard%20%28Civ6%29](Bombards), bringing the Ottoman army into its [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance) peak.
In details, the Grand Bazaar boosts resource accumulation speed based on the level of Strategic Resource diversity in the city. For example, if a city has 3 sources improved, all mines will receive only +1 resource per turn faster, since the level of Strategic Resource diversity is 1. If later you improve one source with an [Oil%20Well%20%28Civ6%29](Oil Well), all improved and sources will accumulate +2 resource per turn faster, regardless of the number of Mines and Oil Wells present. Similarly, extra from Luxury Resources count the number of Luxury types, not the actual number of improvements. Resources, Strategic or Luxury, that are outside the 3-tile workable range or placed under a count towards diversity and benefit from this building as if they were improved with their respective improvements.
Overall, this is an incredible unique building, especially when you consider how underwhelming the Bank is compared to other tier 2 buildings in other s. The construction of the regular Bank is often delayed until much later in the game since the building is neither strong nor important, but the Ottomans should definitely put more emphasis on their Grand Bazaar. And the best thing about the Grand Bazaar is that it is 70 cheaper than the standard Bank. Standing at approximately three quarters of the cost of the Bank, the Grand Bazaar represents the largest discount of all unique buildings in the game.