# Great Engineer (Civ6)

The Great Engineer is a type of [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great Person) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" dedicated to the advancement of production and industry. Each Great Engineer has a unique ability which may be activated at least once, granting its owner a potentially game-changing bonus. The possible activation locations vary according to the particular ability, but usually include a tile with a particular related to the ability (such as an [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone), [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceport), etc.) or a constructing [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder).
Earning Great Engineers.
Great Engineers may be claimed by any player who has earned enough Great Engineer points. [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) and their replacements generate +1 Great Engineer point per turn, +2 more if the city has built the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle), and provide an additional point for each building completed in that district. (For example, an Industrial Zone with a [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop), [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory), and [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Power Plant) would generate +4 Great Engineer points per turn.) In [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) mode, the [Alchemical%20Society%20%28Civ6%29](Alchemical Society), the [University%20%28Civ6%29](University) replacement of the [Hermetic%20Order%20%28Civ6%29](Hermetic Order), also adds +1 Great Engineer point. Further points may also be earned by completing the [Industrial%20Zone%20Logistics%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone Logistics) project in a city with an Industrial Zone. Players who do not have enough points may patronize an Engineer by paying the difference using or .
The [Venetian%20Arsenal%20%28Civ6%29](Venetian Arsenal) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) also provides +2 Great Engineer points per turn. Meanwhile, the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus) gifts an additional charge for all Great Engineers whose charges have not yet been fully depleted as well as all newly recruited ones.
Players can also increase their Great Engineer point yields by using the [Invention%20%28Civ6%29](Invention) policy card, which generates +2 Great Engineer points per turn. In it instead grants +4 Great Engineer points per turn, and +2 more for every Workshop owned. The [Science%20Foundations%20%28Civ6%29](Science Foundations) policy card also offers additional Great Engineer points: +2 per turn for every Factory owned, and +2 more per turn for every Power Plant owned.
The [Stockholm%20%28Civ6%29](Stockholm) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus (or [Bologna%20%28Civ6%29](Bologna) in ) increases the number of Great Engineer points generated from each Industrial Zone district by +1. (Note that in "", this bonus is only active if the Industrial Zone has a completed Workshop building.) 
All Great Engineer point yields are doubled if [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) with the [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) promotion is present in the city.
Strategy.
Like (almost) all [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great People) in "Civilization VI", the Great Engineer's special abilities differ wildly between different personae. However, we can say that they are almost always -oriented, or enhance the performance of a specific in some other way. There are some Engineers who instantly build [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) in a district, and others who speed up the construction of [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders). End-game Engineers help finish Space Race Projects much quicker, which may greatly help a player to achieve a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory)!
Players with a strong productive force may also benefit from completing the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus) wonder, which allows all Engineers owned by the player to activate their abilities an additional time.
Bugs.
Great Engineers are missing their land civilian unit classification. For this reason, they are unaffected by modifiers that affect land civilian units, such as the [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norwegian) and [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori) [List%20of%20civilization%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](civilization abilities).