# Great Merchant (Civ6)

The Great Merchant is a type of [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great Person) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" dedicated to wealth, luxuries, and trade. Each Great Merchant has a unique ability which may be activated at least once, granting its owner a potentially game-changing bonus. Activation is accomplished usually in a [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub district).
In the [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29](Monopolies and Corporations) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), each Great Merchant has 1 build charge and can build a [Corporation%20%28Civ6%29](Corporation) (which expends the Great Merchant). This allows a Great Merchant to either use its activated ability or build a Corporation, but not both. For Great Merchants that have multiple activated charges (e.g., [Marcus%20Licinius%20Crassus%20%28Civ6%29](Marcus Licinius Crassus)) this limitation still applies, and using any of their normal activated charges makes them ineligible to establish a Corporation.
Earning Great Merchants.
Great Merchants may be claimed by any player who has earned enough Great Merchant points. [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) and [Suguba%20%28Civ6%29](Sugubas) generate +1 Great Merchant point per turn, +2 more if the city has built the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle), and provide an additional point for each building completed in that district. (For example, a Commercial Hub with a [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market), [Bank%20%28Civ6%29](Bank), and [Stock%20Exchange%20%28Civ6%29](Stock Exchange) would generate +4 Great Merchant points per turn.) In [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) mode, the [Gilded%20Vault%20%28Civ6%29](Gilded Vault), the [Owls%20of%20Minerva%20%28Civ6%29](Owls of Minerva)'s unique replacement for the Bank, adds +2 Great Merchant points instead of 1, and the [Alchemical%20Society%20%28Civ6%29](Alchemical Society), the [University%20%28Civ6%29](University) replacement of the [Hermetic%20Order%20%28Civ6%29](Hermetic Order), also provides +1 Great Merchant point. In Monopolies and Corporations, the [Industry%20%28Civ6%29](Industry) improvement generates +1 Great Merchant point as well. Further points may also be earned by completing the [Commercial%20Hub%20Investment%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub Investment) project in a city with a Commercial Hub. Players who do not have enough points may patronize a Merchant by paying the difference using or .
Several [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) also provide Great Merchant points. [Great%20Zimbabwe%20%28Civ6%29](Great Zimbabwe) provides +2 Great Merchant points per turn, and the [Casa%20de%20Contrataci%C3%B3n%20%28Civ6%29](Casa de Contratación) and [Big%20Ben%20%28Civ6%29](Big Ben) wonders each provide +3 Great Merchant points per turn.
Players can also increase their Great Merchant point yields by using the [Traveling%20Merchants%20%28Civ6%29](Traveling Merchants) policy card, which generates +2 Great Merchant points per turn. Once the player completes the [Capitalism%20%28Civ6%29](Capitalism) civic, the Traveling Merchants card is replaced with the [Laissez-Faire%20%28Civ6%29](Laissez-Faire) policy card, which generates +4 Great Merchant points per turn. In "", this card instead provides +2 Great Merchant points for every Bank owned, and +4 for every Stock Exchange owned. It also provides bonus points.
The [Stockholm%20%28Civ6%29](Stockholm) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus (or [Bologna%20%28Civ6%29](Bologna) in ') increases the number of Great Merchant points generated from each Commercial Hub district by +1. (Note that in ', this bonus is only active if the Commercial Hub has a completed Market building.)
All Great Merchant point yields are doubled if [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) with the [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) title is present. Additionally, the [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese) generate 50% more Great Merchant points from all sources.
Strategy.
The Great Merchants' abilities help commerce, as usual. However, they do it in vastly different ways. Some grant instant sums; others grant increased capacity; others grant free [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](Luxury Resources). Some Merchants also help to influence [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). Endgame Merchants are even able to turn into tourist attractions, thus helping you to achieve a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory).
In [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29](Monopolies and Corporations) mode, it is crucial to attract Great Merchants since they are the only way to establish [Corporation%20%28Civ6%29](Corporations). At the same time, be careful which Merchants you use to establish Corporations, since they will disappear after doing so.