# Great Mosque of Djenne (Civ5)

Game Info.
Requires [Piety%20%28Civ5%29](Piety). ()
Strategy.
The main bonus of the Great Mosque of Djenne makes spreading a religion easier. Activating the Piety tree and researching the [Theology%20%28Civ5%29](Theology) technology are both necessary to build it. It is advisable to avoid adopting the Mosques belief when expecting to build this Wonder, as this will allow the free [Mosque%20%28Civ5%29](Mosque) it provides to be an added benefit to all other effects from the religion of the city it is located in.
Although it is not mentioned in the Wonder's description, [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ5%29](Great Prophets) purchased (but not automatically generated) in the city that builds the Great Mosque of Djenne also gain an additional use of Spread Religion, for a total of five uses. This means that Prophets generated before the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era) won't benefit from the bonus even if they spawn in the city with the Wonder, but Prophets purchased in the city thereafter will have a bonus Spread Religion use. Likewise, a Prophet gained by completing the Piety policy tree does not get this bonus.
Civilizations that have bonuses to religion, like [Byzantine%20%28Civ5%29](Byzantium), the [Mayan%20%28Civ5%29](Maya), [Ethiopian%20%28Civ5%29](Ethiopia), and the [Celtic%20%28Civ5%29](Celts) should especially try to grab this wonder. The strategy of Sacred Sites (a religion-focused cultural victory) can be greatly helped by this wonder.