# Great Bath (Civ6)

The Great Bath is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) in "". It must be built on [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains).
Strategy.
This Wonder comes very early in the game, being available at [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery). Acting as an early [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam), the Great Bath will ensure safety from floods without the fear of [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spy) offensives flooding the valley. While the and yields do get reduced, theoretically, the will prove useful for religious aims or for complimenting an early Golden-Age Monumentality for the ability to buy a few [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers), [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Traders), and [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders). 
However, in practice, since this is the first Wonder unlocked in the game, the opportunity cost of it is also the highest, as most of the times a game is decided within the first few turns of scouting and expansion. Especially when this Wonder relies a lot on luck, it is not recommended especially if you are playing on low Disaster settings, as it is not really worth the time and effort, not to mention that the potential early bonus and will be more valuable for early growth than . Even on high Disaster settings, you should be careful to gamble your early gameplan on something unreliable. The 180 at this time in the game is huge; it can go towards Builders, Settlers or military units in case you get rushed by an aggressive neighbor. Later on, you still might want to build a [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam) and an [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct), since these two districts are very important to provide your [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) a high adjacency bonus. Due to the Dam and Aqueduct placement rule, they will have to go on the exact same [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) tiles, destroying the yields created so far. Not to mention that it actually "acts" as a Dam in the first place by preventing flood damage. In addition to devoting early production, if you want to receive the bonus , you could end up sacrificing a good amount of later in the game. Early flood protection, and are all amazing, or even the to build Builders and Settlers when you have the [Monumentality%20%28Civ6%29](Monumentality Dedication), but the risk of not putting out an additional city, [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders), or units to protect yourself is overwhelming, and that does not take into account the potential loss when it is not completed in time, which is very likely. Overall, this Wonder rarely sees any play, even more so against high difficulty AI, since it is too expensive in terms of both cost and opportunity cost, and it relies too heavily on luck. 
If you play against the [AI](AI) on a high [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty level) (Emperor or above), their free and bonuses will allow them to research Pottery before you, making rushing the Great Bath incredibly difficult, if not downright impossible, unless you are playing as [China%20%28Civ6%29](China) or have another way to boost wonders. In a competitive multiplayer game against experienced human opponent, this Wonder can be considered to be an early game liability for getting invaded. If your neighbor spots that you are building this Wonder, it tells them you are not investing in your military as well as other important infrastructure, they will exploit this moment of vulnerability and strike. The player who attempts to build the Great Bath will most likely start on the wrong foot when they get attacked.
[Ethiopian%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia) under [Menelik%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Menelik II) has great synergy with the Great Bath since he can turn all that extra into and , especially on high and hyperreal disaster settings. This is even more effective with the [Apocalypse%20%28Civ6%29](Apocalypse) and [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) game mode active, since you can get more [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](Floods) with [Soothsayer%20%28Civ6%29](Soothsayers) and more , , and with the [Voidsingers%20%28Civ6%29](Voidsingers') [Chorus%20%28Civ6%29](Chorus) promotion. Even then, this wonder is by no means a must-have, as there are other, easier methods of generating early on.