# Great Admiral (Civ6)

The Great Admiral is a type of in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" dedicated to naval exploration, trade, and warfare. Like all [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Civilian](civilian units), Great Admirals cannot directly engage with enemy [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units), but they do provide +5 Combat Strength and +1 to [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval units) within 2 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) (provided they belong to the Great Admiral's owner and either the Admiral's [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) or the following one).
Each Great Admiral also has a unique ability which may be activated at least once, granting its owner a potentially game-changing bonus. The ability may be activated in a tile containing a naval combat unit.
Unlike other , Great Admirals cannot move on land tiles. As a result, Great Admirals can only be claimed if a player has a [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ6%29](city), or a city with a completed [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district).
Great People are spawned in the city with the most population. Make sure that is a coastal city to avoid trapping a Great Admiral in an inland sea or lake.
Like other naval units, Great Admirals may move on [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) tiles, provided the City Center is directly adjacent to a [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) or Coast. By moving a Great Admiral to a City Center, it is possible to transfer that Admiral to any Harbor, [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park), water-based [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) or coastal City Center owned by the player. (Note that Admirals cannot use the transfer ability from a Harbor district – transporting an Admiral from a City Center to a Harbor works only in one direction.)
Unlike other Great People, Great Admirals shares model from certain naval units, which includes [Quadrireme%20%28Civ6%29](Quadrireme), [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigate) and [Destroyer%20%28Civ6%29](Destroyer).
Earning Great Admirals.
Great Admirals may be claimed by any player who has earned enough Great Admiral points. [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) and [Cothon%20%28Civ6%29](Cothon) districts generate +1 Great Admiral point per turn, while [Royal%20Navy%20Dockyard%20%28Civ6%29](Royal Navy Dockyard) districts generate +2 per turn. Each produces an additional +2 more if the city has built the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle), as well as an additional point for each building completed in that district. (For example, a Harbor with a [Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Lighthouse), [Shipyard%20%28Civ6%29](Shipyard), and [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport) would generate +4 Great Admiral points per turn.) Further points may also be earned by completing the [Harbor%20Shipping%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor Shipping) project in a city with a Harbor. Players who do not have enough points may patronize an Admiral by paying the difference using or . The [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portuguese) [Navigation%20School%20%28Civ6%29](Navigation School) also provides +1 Great Admiral point per turn.
The [Colossus%20%28Civ6%29](Colossus), [Great%20Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Great Lighthouse), and [Torre%20de%20Bel%C3%A9m%20%28Civ6%29](Torre de Belém) wonders also provide +1 Great Admiral point per turn.
Players can also increase their Great Admiral point yields by using the [Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Navigation) policy card, which generates +2 Great Admiral points per turn. The [Laissez-Faire%20%28Civ6%29](Laissez-Faire) policy card (in ) also generates Great Admiral points: +2 per turn for every Shipyard owned and +4 for every Seaport owned.
The [Stockholm%20%28Civ6%29](Stockholm) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus (or [Bologna%20%28Civ6%29](Bologna) in ) increases the number of Great Admiral points generated from each Harbor district by +1. (Note that in "", this bonus is only active if the Harbor has a completed Lighthouse building.) 
All Great Admiral point yields are doubled if [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) with the [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) title is present in the city. 
Strategy.
Great Admirals function a lot like [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals), providing naval units with Combat Strength and bonuses that allow them to do more damage and traverse the world's waterways faster...and much like those of a Great General, these bonuses cease to function for naval units two eras more advanced than the Admiral. However, Great Admirals can and should be retired when they become obsolete, as doing so will provide you with other valuable benefits.