# Great General (Civ6)

The Great General is a type of in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" dedicated to land warfare. Like all [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Civilian](civilian units), Great Generals cannot directly engage with enemy [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units), but they do provide +5 Combat Strength and +1 to land units within 2 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) (provided they belong to the Great General's owner and either the General's [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) or the following one).
Each Great General also has a unique ability which may be activated at least once, granting its owner a potentially game-changing bonus. The ability usually has to be activated in a tile containing a land combat unit, or in the open world on any land tile.
Earning Great Generals.
Great Generals may be claimed by any player who has earned enough Great General points. [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) generate +1 Great General point per turn (except for [Th%C3%A0nh%20%28Civ6%29](Thành)), +2 more if the city has built the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle), and provide an additional point for each [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) completed in that district. (For example, an Encampment with a [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks), [Armory%20%28Civ6%29](Armory), and [Military%20Academy%20%28Civ6%29](Military Academy) would generate +4 Great General points per turn.) Further points may also be earned by completing the [Encampment%20Training%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment Training) [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project) in a city with an Encampment. Players who do not have enough points may patronize a General by paying the difference using or .
The [Alhambra%20%28Civ6%29](Alhambra) provides +1 Great General point per turn, and the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army) provides +2 points.
Players can also increase their Great General point yields by using the [Strategos%20%28Civ6%29](Strategos) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card), which generates +2 Great General points per turn. Once the player discovers the [Scorched%20Earth%20%28Civ6%29](Scorched Earth) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic), the Strategos card is replaced with the [Military%20Organization%20%28Civ6%29](Military Organization) policy card, which generates +4 Great General points per turn. In "" this policy card instead generates +2 Great General points for every Armory owned and +4 for every Military Academy owned.
The [Hetairoi%20%28Civ6%29](Hetairoi) and [Garde%20Imp%C3%A9riale%20%28Civ6%29](Garde Impériale) both gain +5 Great General points for every enemy killed.The [Stockholm%20%28Civ6%29](Stockholm) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus (or [Bologna%20%28Civ6%29](Bologna) in ') increases the number of Great General points generated from each Encampment district by +1. (Note that in ', this bonus is only active if the Encampment has a completed Barracks or [Stable%20%28Civ6%29](Stable).)
All Great General point yields are doubled if [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) with the [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) title is present in the city.
Strategy.
Unsurprisingly, most Great Generals' abilities have direct military applications: some create units; some allow units to acquire XP more easily; some grant free s; some form a single unit into a Corps or Army; and some provide permanent bonuses to the abilities, production, or storage capacity of military units. They also provide Combat Strength and bonuses to nearby land units, allowing you to strike at your enemies harder and faster. This bonus can only be granted to Classical or later units: [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors), [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scouts), [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29](Slingers), [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers), [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearmen), [Heavy%20Chariot%20%28Civ6%29](Heavy Chariots), and [List%20of%20unique%20units%20in%20Civ6%23Ancient%20Era](Ancient Era unique land units) can "never" gain anything from any Great General's passive ability. This bonus applies to [Nihang%20%28Civ6%29](Nihang) and [Vampire%20%28Civ6%29](Vampires) regardless of the Great General's era. On the other hand, [Warrior%20Monk%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior Monks) are unaffected.
However, since warfare is constantly changing with the development of new weapons and technology, a Great General's military knowledge eventually becomes antiquated, and the General ceases to provide Combat Strength and bonuses to units that are two eras more advanced than they are. When it comes time to upgrade your army, be sure to retire any Great Generals whose bonuses have become [obsolete](obsolete).
Note that, either by design or omission, the Great General's bonus also allows [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege units) to fire in the same turn as they move (without the [Expert%20Crew%20%28Civ6%29](Expert Crew) promotion). That means that a siege unit (e.g., a [Catapult%20%28Civ6%29](Catapult)) which starts its turn benefiting from a Great General's MP bonus may move and, if in range of the enemy target, fire in the same turn - something normally impossible without Expert Crew. Use this to decimate a city's defenses in a single coordinated attack, so that it cannot shoot back and damage your siege units (or any other units) on the next turn!