# Great Scientist (Civ6)

The Great Scientist is a type of [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great Person) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" dedicated to the advancement of science and technology. Each Great Scientist has a unique ability which may be activated at least once, granting its owner a potentially game-changing bonus. Locations suitable for activation will vary wildly, depending on the particular ability of the Great Scientist; they may be a particular ([Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) mostly), or even some feature in the open world.
Earning Great Scientists.
Great Scientists may be claimed by any player who has earned enough Great Scientist points. [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) and their replacements generate +1 Great Scientist point per turn, +2 more if the city has built the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle), and provide an additional point for each building completed in that district. (For example, a Campus with a [Library%20%28Civ6%29](Library), [University%20%28Civ6%29](University), and [Research%20Lab%20%28Civ6%29](Research Lab) would generate +4 Great Scientist points per turn.) Further points may also be earned by completing the [Campus%20Research%20Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Campus Research Grants) project in a city with a Campus. Players who do not have enough points may patronize a Scientist by paying the difference using or .
Several [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) also provide Great Scientist points. The [Great%20Library%20%28Civ6%29](Great Library) provides +1 Great Scientist point, the [University%20of%20Sankore%20%28Civ6%29](University of Sankore) provides +2 Great Scientist points, [Oxford%20University%20%28Civ6%29](Oxford University) provides +3 Great Scientist points, and the [Amundsen-Scott%20Research%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Amundsen-Scott Research Station) provides +5 Great Scientist points every turn.
Players can also increase their Great Scientist point yields by using the [Inspiration%20%28Civ6%29](Inspiration) policy card, which generates +2 Great Scientist points per turn. Once the player completes the [Nuclear%20Program%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Program) civic, the Inspiration card is replaced with the [Nobel%20Prize%20%28Civ6%29](Nobel Prize) policy card, which generates +4 Great Scientist points per turn. In "", this card is replaced with Science Foundations, and it provides +2 Great Scientist points for every University owned and +4 for every Research Lab owned, as well as [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineer) points.
The [Pantheons%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Spark pantheon) bonus and the [Stockholm%20%28Civ6%29](Stockholm) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus (or [Bologna%20%28Civ6%29](Bologna) in ) both increase the number of Great Scientist points generated from each Campus by +1. (Note that in "", Stockholm's bonus is only active if the Campus has a completed Library building.)
All Great Scientist point yields are doubled if [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) with the [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) title is in the city.
Strategy.
Unsurprisingly, Great Scientists' abilities are focused primarily on technological advancement. Most of them trigger s for technologies from their respective era and/or the next one. Some, however, improve the working of -related buildings, and/or build these instantly (so, try to use them in [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) which don't yet have the relevant buildings). Furthermore, some Great Scientists provide lump sums of when activated next to certain [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain features), requiring you to explore the world and physically bring the Scientist there!
End-game Great Scientists help rush Space Race projects, which may determine whether or not a player is able to complete a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory).