# Great Work (Civ6)

A Great Work is an exceptional item in the world of "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It may appear as an object created by an artist, an ancient artifact that serves as a reminder of the world's glorious past, or a holy relic left behind by a person of faith. Great Works are essential to players pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory) in the game.
Mechanics.
The Great Work system has been expanded and tweaked considerably in relation to ""; however, its main purpose remains the same. Great Works are the main source of in the game, and consequently the main path to a Cultural Victory.
All Great Works exist as physical items in the game. As such, they need a space to be stored in by their owner. If no such space exists, the item cannot be acquired by the [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in question; indeed, it sometimes cannot be created at all. If, for example, a [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Artist) has been attracted by your civilization, but you have no suitable slots in your [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) for Great Works of Art, then they won't be able to ever create their masterpieces; similarly, if an [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostle) with the necessary dies heroically in [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat) with rival religious agents, but its civilization has no slots for any Relics, then its death will have been in vain! Thus, players looking to acquire Great Works must prepare space ahead of time, constructing specific buildings or [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) to be able to house these items.
Great Works may also be acquired via trading with other civilizations; however, the same condition applies here: if you want to buy a specific Great Work, you'll need an appropriate slot to store it.
The Great Works screen.
A special interface button for your Great Works is found in the upper left corner of the UI, which will open a screen showing your whole Great Work infrastructure. It shows separate space for each building with appropriate slots, and what (if any) Great Works currently reside in it. Mouse over each one to see its details; but the main stats provided by all works in the current building are always shown in the bottom part of its space. The total number of works, total number of free slots available and total yield may be seen in the upper right corner of the screen.
From here you can also manage your Great Works by moving them around. After being produced or excavated, all Great Works are immediately placed in an appropriate slot in one of your buildings. In principle, you are able to move them at will (just click on a Great Work to select it, and the game will highlight all suitable empty slots you could move it into), but there are some rules for this:
Why should you shuffle your Great Works? First, because each Great Work provides yields which you may want to use in a specific city (-yielding works are a case in point). Second, because [Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Museums) may activate a special [Theming%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](theming bonus) which doubles the yields of the works. And third, because this allows you to move them away from danger of war or disaster and into [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) protected by [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies), and to maximize bonuses from [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors) and buildings.
Types of Great Works.
In comparison to "Civilization V: Brave New World", "Civilization VI" brings greater variety to the various classes of Great Works, as well as one brand new class.
Great Works of Art.
These are the true cultural staples of your civilization: exceptional creations of human genius in the most varied of forms. All of them are the work of , more specifically the [Great%20Writer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Writers), [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Artists), [Great%20Musician%20%28Civ6%29](Great Musicians) and the [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General) [Sun%20Tzu%20%28Civ6%29](Sun Tzu). There are three main types of Great Works of Art, according to their type of Person:
All of these divisions are important for the purposes of activating theming bonuses. Even without themes, all Great Works produce both and after being placed in their relevant Great Work slots. For a detailed guide on how to maximize out of Great Works of Art, read [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here).
Artifacts.
 Artifacts are remnants of the past that hold historical importance in some way, be it an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](ancient) mask, a rusty sword of the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), or a flintlock pistol of the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era). Unlike Great Works of Art, Artifacts may only be accessed later in the game, after discovering the [Natural%20History%20%28Civ6%29](Natural History) and/or [Cultural%20Heritage%20%28Civ6%29](Cultural Heritage) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics), and by performing archaeological expeditions all over the world at s and s. In this, you will be competing against other civilizations, so take care to reach these locations first.
 Artifacts are assigned to a specific [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era). In order for an [Archaeological%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeological Museum) to be themed, all Artifacts must be from the same era but different civilizations. An [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologist) can only excavate Artifacts from at least 4 eras behind the current era.
Each Artifact provides +3 and +3 .
[Anshan%20%28Civ6%29](Anshan's) Suzerain bonus provides +1 from each Artifact.
Relics.
"[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" introduces a brand new type of Great Work: the religious Relic. This may be a piece of the True Cross, or the Tablet of the Prophet, or a similar item filled with sacred significance. In the world of "Civilization VI", more pious than ever, these Relics are powerful tools of both religious and cultural dominance. Their sources are unique, and so are the places they may be stored. Unlike Great Works of Art or Artifacts, Relics may be earned throughout the entire game until the maximum of 24 Relics exist.
Each Relic provides +4 and +8 . If playing as [Jadwiga%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga), a Relic provides a bonus of +4 , +2 and +2 , while a [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese) player will earn an extra +2 , +2 and +4 from each Relic. [Anshan%20%28Civ6%29](Anshan's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus provides +1 from each Relic, and [Kandy%20%28Civ6%29](Kandy's) Suzerain bonus provides +50% from each Relic.
Relics of the Void.
In the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), a new type of Great Work makes itself known. When the [Voidsingers%20%28Civ6%29](Voidsingers') sinister [Cultist%20%28Civ6%29](Cultist) meets its end or spends all of its charges, it will create a terrifying item not of this world: a Relic of the Void. This eldritch artifact could be something as mundane as a simple tome of arcane knowledge, or something as incomprehensible and madness-inducing as the original "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)" hint guide! In any case, Relics of the Void function much the same way as regular Relics - up to 24 can exist in the game and they provide +4 and +12 each - so make sure to pick some up to increase your and output.
Heroic Relics.
In the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) game mode, the first time a Hero meets their end, whether in battle or as their life ends naturally, they create two Heroic Relics: an epic detailing their glorious feats, which is automatically displayed in their home city's Monument; and a memento - perhaps an article of clothing or a weapon - which must be excavated before it is displayed, and which works like Artifacts.
Each Heroic Relic provides +2 , +2 , and +6 . They can be displayed in [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monuments), which gain +2 Great Work slots for them.
[Mvemba%20a%20Nzinga%20%28Civ6%29](Mvemba a Nzinga) has some difficulty getting regular Relics and recruiting Cultists due to low generation, so Heroic Relics may be a great boon for him.
Products.
In the [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29](Monopolies and Corporations) game mode, running the [Create%20New%20Product%20%28Civ6%29](Create New Product) [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project) in a city with a [Corporation%20%28Civ6%29](Corporation) will produce a new type of Great Work called a Product, each with a unique name. Products can only be stored in either a [Stock%20Exchange%20%28Civ6%29](Stock Exchange) or a [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport), each of which has 3 slots in this game mode. Products can also be traded or sold to the AI (their value seems to be similar to that of Great Works of Writing or Art but also based on bonus type).
Each individual Product provides the [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury%20resources%20and%20their%20bonuses](Industry bonus) yield multiplier, a small amount of base yield (+2 to +6, depending on resource yield type) and 1 . For instance, if a City with a Corporation were to produce a Jade Product, the city that slots the Product will receive a 25% bonus. Products can stack in an additive manner, so a city with a [Stock%20Exchange%20%28Civ6%29](Stock Exchange) and a [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport) can receive the same Industry bonus multiple times (but note that a corporation can only produce a maximum of 5 products).
Creating Great Works.
The three main types of Great Works differ substantially in the methods that must be used to create and/or acquire them.
Creating Great Works of Art.
As mentioned above, Great Works, as objects of art, are created by certain types of . In order to attract them to your civilization, you'll need first to accumulate respective Great Person Points (for more information on how to do this, head to the [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great People) article).
Once acquired, these exceptional humans have to get activated. This, however, may only be done on a [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) containing a [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) with free slots for the respective type of Art (such as an [Art%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Art Museum)). Most of the time this will happen in a [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district), since it holds the common buildings which have these slots. However, many [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders) also have Great Work slots; make sure to check their descriptions beforehand to be sure. Additionally, the [Palace%20%28Civ6%29](Palace) in your has 1 slot which can hold any type of Great Work, Artifact, or Relic.
Excavating Artifacts.
 Artifacts work very differently than Great Works of Art. The source of Artifacts is not Great People, but rather the history of the world itself. Artifacts are created by a hidden mechanic all the way until the Industrial Era, when the Natural History civic is able to be completed. At this point, the locations are revealed where s all over the world hold hidden historical treasures, waiting for [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologists) to dig them up. Later, during the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era), another source of Artifacts, s, are revealed via the Cultural Heritage civic, allowing further exploration of history.
In order to access these sources, your civilization needs a special civilian unit: the Archaeologist. Archaeologists may only be trained inside of a city containing an [Archaeological%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeological Museum) with at least one free Artifact slot. Then, they must be moved to the target or , at which point one must activate its special ability. A dialogue window will appear, informing you of the era the Artifact belongs to. In most cases, you will also be prompted to select which civilization this Artifact would have been generated by. Pay attention to this, since this option is a way to achieve theming bonuses in your [Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Museums).
Note that, once they appear, Artifacts will block any development in their tile. You will be unable to place Districts or Wonders there, as well as any Improvements, until you excavate the Artifact. It is usually a good idea to first dig out Artifacts from tiles which you need for development, before looking for those situated further from your lands.
Creating Relics.
The third type of Great Works are created mainly through one of the most interesting novelties of "Civilization VI": [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat). Every [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostle) with the special [Martyr%20%28Civ6%29](Martyr) promotion will create a Relic if it dies during theological combat. In this way, its sacrifice is remembered by a material remnant, which may be displayed in your religious institutions to inspire the faithful and draw tourists to your civilization.
Another way to gain a Relic is by visiting a [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Village). If you are lucky, the locals will have a Relic that has been passed from generation to generation, and they will deem you worthy to receive it. Retiring the Great General [Jeanne%20d%27Arc%20%28Civ6%29](Jeanne d'Arc) will also earn you a Relic. Moreover, [Kandy%20%28Civ6%29](Kandy's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus allows players to find Relics once they encounter a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder).
Just like Great Works and Artifacts, Relics must be placed in their relevant slots. The most common source of such slots are [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temples), each of which has 1 Relic slot.
For the necessary process to create Relics of the Void, Heroic Relics, and Products (the three new Great Work types introduced by the new modes of ""), check the necessary sections above.
Storing Great Works.
It is a requirement of producing or excavating a Great Work that there is an available slot in a building or wonder within your empire. A player trying for a Culture Victory ought to prioritize these buildings.
Most Great Work slots are for a single type of matching Great Work, though some buildings have slots that can contain a Great Work of any or many different types. Every civ starts with a Palace which has a slot for any type of Great Work (or 5 slots when playing as the [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese)).