# Great Barrier Reef (Civ6)

The Great Barrier Reef is a two-tile passable in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". The Great Barrier Reef appears on tiles. Each Wonder tile provides 3 and 2 . Each wonder tile provides +2 Appeal to adjacent tiles and a major [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) to nearby [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) and [Observatory%20%28Civ6%29](Observatories) (but not [Seowon%20%28Civ6%29](Seowon)).
In "", discovering the Great Barrier Reef grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
Strategy.
Each Great Barrier Reef tile has a yield of 3 and 2 . Since is often hard to generate early in the game, incorporating natural wonder tiles can provide a vital head start through the [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ6](tech tree).
Like ordinary Coast tiles, the yields of the Great Barrier Reef's tiles can be increased using certain bonuses. If the wonder tiles are owned by a city with a , [Shipyard%20%28Civ6%29](Shipyard), and [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport), the yield of the tiles will increase by 1 , 1 , and 2 respectively. (The bonus from the Shipyard only works in "".) [Auckland%20%28Civ6%29](Auckland's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus also increases the tile yields by 1 , and by a further 1 upon reaching the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era). Unlike tiles with [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs), however, the wonder tiles don't provide a Defense Strength bonus.
Unfortunately, as with all natural wonders, the Great Barrier Reef tiles cannot be developed or improved. Because of this, natural wonders are sometimes more of a hindrance than an asset later in the game - a natural wonder in the heart of a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) can spoil adjacency bonuses for [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts). In general, passable wonder tiles are significantly better than an unimproved tile of any kind, but are often less productive than an ordinary tile with an [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement) or a district. If the wonder spawns directly adjacent to the coast, it can be incorporated into a [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Park).