# Great General (Civ5)

Game Info.
A [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great Person) specialized in land warfare. Appears when land-based military [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) generate enough Great General points (by earning [XP](XP) in battles against non-[Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarian) units and Barbarian units inside your [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory)). The number of points required increases with each successive General.
The unit is expended after performing either of these actions.
Strategy.
The Great General can construct the special [Citadel%20%28Civ5%29](Citadel) improvement. In order to Construct a Citadel, the Great General must either be in your territory, or on a land tile bordering your territory (even if this land tile is in another [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization's) territory). The Citadel gives a 100% defensive bonus to any unit occupying it and damages enemy units that finish their turn in tiles adjacent to it for 30% of their total [hit%20points](hit points). The Great General is consumed when it builds the Citadel. In ' and ', this ability also has similar properties to the "Cultural Bomb" ability, adding all adjacent tiles into your territory. Be warned that stealing the territory of other civilizations can cause [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic) incidents with the [Leaders%20%28Civ5%29](leaders).
The Great General provides a 15% combat bonus to all player-owned land units within 2 tiles. The Great General is "not" consumed when it provides this bonus. It should be noted that this buff to other units does not stack if you have multiple Great Generals.
The use of Great Generals, as well as [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ5%29](Great Admirals), is much different than that of other Great People. They usually lie dormant until a war requires their abilities, at which point they should go immediately to the battlefield or sea. If you're fighting a lot, you may find yourself with more Generals/Admirals than you need - that's the time to construct Citadels in strategic locations (either to strengthen a weak point of the battlefield, or to claim a tile with an important [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resource)). Strictly speaking, unless you're pursuing a total war strategy on several battlefronts, you rarely need more than one Great General and Great Admiral.