# Great Wall (CTP2)

The Great Wall of [Chinese%20%28CTP2%29](China) is one of the most remarkable constructions ever built in the Ancient ages. It is a wall that stretches for thousands of miles along China's northern border. No other Wonder of the Ancient age had such a large size. The amount of money and time the Chinese spent on building as well as maintaining with troops over the centuries with this one defensible wall was a  staggering cost probably the equivalent of a trillion US dollars over the centuries that the various Chinese governments spent on it. But eventually through the dedicated leaders the Chinese achieved this goal of a fully built and manned wall.
Gameplay.
An impenetrable bulwark that spans the borders of an empire, the Great Wall eliminates the possibility of a invasion of the host empire. It also reduces costs.
The discovery of the renders the Great Wall obsolete.
Great Library entry.
One of the most incredible wonders of the world, the Great Wall of China stretches for 1,500 miles along the border between Northern China and Mongolia. It is an amalgamation of many walls built at different points in ancient history; the first unified wall was built in the 3rd century BC by the Ch'in dynasty. Many of the laborers, conscripted from all over China, died during the project. The Ming dynasty (1368-1644) later added to it. Guard stations and watchtowers are placed at regular intervals. It averages 25 ft in height and is 15 ft to 30 ft thick at the base, sloping to 12 ft at the top. Although the western part of the wall is just an earth mound, the eastern part is earth and stone faced with brick. China suffered many invasions from the North, which unfortunately proved the Great Wall to be of little military significance. The fact that much of it still stands in modern times is a testament to the durability of masonry.