# Great Prophet (Civ6)

The Great Prophet is a type of in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". Great Prophets serve only one purpose: to Found a Religion. They may found their [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) in a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) or on the [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder). Once a player recruits a Great Prophet, they may not claim another. The number of Prophets available in a given game depends on [Map%20%28Civ6%29%23Map%20size](the size of the map), being equal to half the default number of players plus one.
[Mvemba%20a%20Nzinga%20%28Civ6%29](Mvemba a Nzinga) cannot claim Great Prophets.
Earning Great Prophets.
Great Prophets may be claimed by any player who has earned enough Great Prophet points. [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) generate +1 Great Prophet point per turn, and provide an additional point for each [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) completed in that district. (For example, a Holy Site with a [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine) and a [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple) would generate +3 Great Prophet points per turn.) The [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russian) [Lavra%20%28Civ6%29](Lavra) grants an additional Great Prophet point, as do Holy Sites built by [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium). Further points may also be earned by completing the [Holy%20Site%20Prayers%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site Prayers) [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project) in a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) with a Holy Site. Players who do not have enough points may patronize a Prophet by paying the difference using or .
Players can also increase their Great Prophet point yields by using the [Revelation%20%28Civ6%29](Revelation) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card), which generates +2 Great Prophet points per turn.
The [Divine%20Spark%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Spark) [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) and the [Stockholm%20%28Civ6%29](Stockholm) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus (or [Bologna%20%28Civ6%29](Bologna) in ') both increase the number of Great Prophet points generated from each Holy Site by +1. (Note that in ', Stockholm's bonus is only active if the Holy Site has a completed Shrine building.)
In "", the Exodus of the Evangelists [Ages%20%28Civ6%29](dedication), available from the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical) to [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Eras), will also provide the player with +4 Great Prophet points per turn.
Other Methods.
Great Prophets may be earned without using points or patronage. Completing the [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) grants the player a free Prophet, making the wonder an excellent method for founding an early religion.
[Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia) receives a free Great Prophet once the next-to-last Great Prophet is claimed, even if they do not own a Holy Site. Note that if Arabia is eliminated before the next-to-last Great Prophet is claimed, the final Great Prophet will not be recruitable.
Great Prophets cannot be captured. Even in the rare event an enemy [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) with an unused Prophet is defeated, the Prophet will simply be lost. The next Great Prophet in line will then become recruitable again.
Strategy.
Great Prophets are the men and women whose lives inspire others to follow in their footsteps. The religions that they found can speed a civilization on its way to victory, or at least afford it some useful bonuses. Players who want to attract a Great Prophet early on should research [Astrology%20%28Civ6%29](Astrology) first, then build either a Holy Site or Stonehenge near their so they can activate the Great Prophet's ability when it appears. They can further expedite the process by discovering [Mysticism%20%28Civ6%29](Mysticism) and adding the [Revelation%20%28Civ6%29](Revelation) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) to their [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government). Players using [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia), however, can simply build a Holy Site and wait, since they are guaranteed to receive a Great Prophet once all of the other possible religions have been founded.
Finally, Great Prophets cannot be recruited from the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) onward (though this is not usually relevant unless the game is started in a later [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era)).
Bugs.
Great Prophets are missing their land civilian unit classification. For this reason, they are unaffected by modifiers that affect land civilian units, such as the [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norwegian) and [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori) [List%20of%20civilization%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](civilization abilities).