# Great Library (Civ6)

The Great Library is a in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on flat land adjacent to a with a .
Strategy.
In the base game, the Great Library is one of the worst wonders in the game. It is unlocked by a late Classical Era [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) and grants s to all Ancient and Classical Era technologies, which most likely are already boosted or available to you. Its other bonuses are way too insignificant to justify its cost. Theoretically, the only situation in which the Great Library is worth it is when a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) has strong and has managed to unlock it relatively early, but is lagging severely in tech development. This situation, however, is vanishingly rare: you always start with more per turn than (except when playing as [Trajan%20%28Civ6%29](Trajan) or [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon)), the Campus is unlocked way before the [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square), and the for [Writing%20%28Civ6%29](Writing) is almost always guaranteed while the for [Drama%20and%20Poetry%20%28Civ6%29](Drama and Poetry) is hard and expensive to obtain. The greatest use for this wonder in the base game is the 2 [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works of Writing) slots (which help cultural civilizations more than scientific ones), but still, it should almost always be at the bottom of the priority list.
From "" onward, the Great Library provides a random tech boost every time another player recruits a Great Scientist. This is particularly helpful if you're playing as a -focused civilization, since the Great Scientists your opponents recruit will help you advance through the tech tree faster as you develop your and foundation. As in the base game, however, it proves practically worthless when playing as a -focused civilization, since you'll most likely be getting the majority of Great Scientists and won't receive the extra for doing so.
Even [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](China), who on paper may get more out of the Great Library due to their boosts being 10% bigger, should not build it unless they are going for something other than a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory) (most suitably, a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory)).
On the other hand, Babylon should make building the Great Library a priority, as it immediately gives them every single Ancient and Classical Era technology, which is huge considering their low per turn. With "Rise and Fall", they also get free technologies from it in the late game, which immensely helps them on their quest for a Science Victory.