# Greek (Civ5)

Hidden: {{Link5|Unit}}s within {{City-State5}} {{Link5|borders}} do not cause a loss of {{Influence5}} and heal as if they were in friendly {{Link5|territory}}.
The Greek people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The Greeks excel at [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomacy) and influencing [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states). Their unique ability makes their {{Influence5}} with city-states degrade more slowly and recover faster. This ability is arguably more powerful than it looks. It is easy for them to maintain an Allied status with city-states once they achieve it. Use every opportunity throughout the game to do this, and Greece will not only be well on the way to a [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory), but also gain other substantial advantages. If all the [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policies) in the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) tree are adopted, Greece will be able to maintain a stranglehold on city-state alliances that will be nearly impossible for rival civilizations to break. [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](Religion) can also play an important role in Greek diplomacy, because if its religion spreads to an allied city-state, Greece loses {{Influence5}} with the city-state even slower (or not at all, if the Patronage opener was chosen).
The Greeks' other strength lies in their [Companion%20Cavalry%20%28Civ5%29](Companion Cavalry) and [Hoplite%20%28Civ5%29](Hoplites), both of which are available early in the game and significantly more powerful than the [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) they replace. Use them not only to repel any early attacks, but also to defeat [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians) and perform city-state quests.
The early military advantage provided by Greece's [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) has great synergy with the Greeks' ability to recover {{Influence5}} twice as fast, as they can more effectively demand tribute from city-states and then use the acquired {{Gold5}} to buy more {{Influence5}} and/or military units. Finding an [Ancient%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruin) that upgrades a [Warrior%20%28Civ5%29](Warrior) to a Hoplite in the first few turns can give the Greeks an early advantage.
Finally, the Greeks have a hidden ability which is pretty useful: their units may enter and remain in city-state [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) without causing a trespassing incident, and without lowering {{Influence5}} with the city-state.