# Greek (Civ6)

The Greek people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Pericles%20%28Civ6%29](Pericles), under whom their [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are light blue and white; and [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo), under whom their colors are dark red and light blue.
The Greeks' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Plato's Republic, which grants an additional Wildcard [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy slot) in any [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Hoplite%20%28Civ6%29](Hoplite) (which replaces the [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman)), and their unique is the [Acropolis%20%28Civ6%29](Acropolis) (which replaces the [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 3 towards [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) (except [Snow%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Snow Hills))"
Greece benefits from one of the game's most versatile abilities in Plato's Republic, a strong unique district in the Acropolis, and masses of through peace or war from Pericles and Gorgo's leader abilities. The Hoplite may be something of a lackluster unique unit, but Greece can get itself off to a strong start nonetheless and catapult itself to a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural) or [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomatic](Diplomatic Victory).
Plato's Republic.
This ability is one of the strongest in the entire game. A Wildcard slot from the very beginning is an invaluable resource, and one that scales into the late game remarkably well. Simply being able to slot [God%20King%20%28Civ6%29](God King) and [Urban%20Planning%20%28Civ6%29](Urban Planning) at the same time is a great boon to crucial early turns, and pretty much guarantees Greece a fast pantheon. This transitions seamlessly into the ability to slot [Revelation%20%28Civ6%29](Revelation) before researching [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy), which gives Greece a strong lead in the race to claim a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet). Combined with its enormous output which allows it to race to crucial religious civics such as [Reformed%20Church%20%28Civ6%29](Reformed Church), Greece is a surprisingly strong religious civilization. However, their lack of any direct bonuses to generation hampers them a bit. Perhaps consider picking beliefs such as Lay Ministry or World Church for a boost to your before a dedicated religious civilization comes along and supplants your fledgling religion. 
This extra Wildcard policy slot can help both leaders in different ways. [Pericles%20%28Civ6%29](Pericles) may want to slot in a Diplomatic [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) to generate more , while [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo) might want to slot in a Military policy card to gain an extra +1 [Strength%20%28Civ6%29](Combat Strength) for her units.
As stated before, this ability has a multitude of uses, and this strategy is one among many. Use the Wildcard slot however you see fit.
Thermopylae (Gorgo).
"Earn " "from kills".
Gorgo can (temporarily) ignore [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monuments) and build units to take down [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](barbarians) instead. Barbarian hunting will activate the for [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working) and [Military%20Tradition%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tradition), which will unlock [Strategos%20%28Civ6%29](Strategos) (+2 points per turn), [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments), and Hoplites. With these, Greece is well equipped to engage in some early conflict and amass a sizable cultural lead. Keep in mind that although Gorgo is encouraged to go to war, Greece has very few direct bonuses toward a Domination Victory. Your fights are, at this point, for the express purpose of gaining , and your goal is to kill as many units as you can (unless you have a problematic neighbor you're looking to knock down a peg, in which case it is a good idea to capture some cities). 
"Bonus " "Combat Strength from" "[Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29%23Military](Military Policies) slotted".
As Gorgo, your units will always be receiving a small combat strength bonus (unless you adopt [Classical%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Republic) as your government). In the early game, use your spare culture from kills to beeline for [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy) so that you can unlock [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy) for the extra Military policy slot. In the middle game, [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy) or [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) should be your choice of government. Monarchy should be preferred due to the two Wildcard slots that can allow you to slot additional Military Policies, but Theocracy can be useful in the case of a Religious Victory. In the late game, you should absolutely research [Totalitarianism%20%28Civ6%29](Totalitarianism) and adopt [Fascism%20%28Civ6%29](Fascism) as your government for the four extra Military policy slots. Combined with Fascism's initial bonus to combat strength and the three Wildcard slots (two from Fascism, plus one from Greece's ability), all of your units will have up to +11 Combat Strength, which can be a large incentive to go for a late-game Domination Victory. In "Gathering Storm," if you need to pick an Information Era government, then preferably research [Venture%20Politics%20%28Civ6%29](Venture Politics) so that you can adopt [Corporate%20Libertarianism%20%28Civ6%29](Corporate Libertarianism) as your government for the three Military policy slots and six Wildcard slots. However, if you are purely searching for Combat Strength and unit production, you may want to keep Fascism in order to avoid losing [Science%20%28Civ6%29](Science). Going for [Castles%20%28Civ6%29](Castles) or [Printing%20%28Civ6%29](Printing) can also be useful so that you can build the [Alhambra%20%28Civ6%29](Alhambra) for the extra Military policy slot, or the [Forbidden%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Forbidden City) for the extra Wildcard policy slot. 
Surrounded by Glory (Pericles).
Pericles' bonuses kick in later. Until then, it's possible to go for [Mysticism%20%28Civ6%29](Mysticism) and pick up either of the wildcard policies as a back-up route, or rush [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy) and start focusing on city-states early. Should you rush, building the [Apadana%20%28Civ6%29](Apadana) sets you up for even more s if you get any wonders later. You should also try to get [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani) for the increased city-state bonuses. Afterwards, it's a race against other civs to grab s and Suzerainties. Building as many [Acropolis%20%28Civ6%29](Acropoli) as possible is key, for each one built grants one upon completion. Since Acropoli are already very easy to get high adjacency yields of , many of them along with the s they make allowing Suzerain status with many city-states will allow Pericles to gain truly astounding amounts of !
Later in the game, you should make it a point to discover [Totalitarianism%20%28Civ6%29](Totalitarianism). Even if you do not plan on adopting [Fascism%20%28Civ6%29](Fascism) as your government, you'll get the [Gunboat%20Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](Gunboat Diplomacy) policy card, which will speed up your influence generation and make it easier for you to maintain your Suzerain status with city-states. In "", however, this policy card is unlocked with [Ideology%20%28Civ6%29](Ideology) and you won't need to go out of your way.
Hoplite.
Through numerous buffs, both directly and indirectly, Hoplites went from being one of the worst unique units in the game to one of the best early game units. Its high Combat Strength, cheap cost and lack of a strategic resource requirement means a rush with Hoplites can be deadly.
First of all, it gains 10 Combat Strength if it is next to another Hoplite, which is a strong and easy-to-satisfy bonus. This bonus will put Hoplites at 38 Combat Strength, only 2 Combat Strength lower than a [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman) (considering that Swordsmen gain 5 Combat Strength when fighting anti-cavalry units). However, the fact that each Swordsman costs 20 with almost 1.5 times the cost of a Hoplite means an army of Hoplites can always beat out Swordsmen just because of sheer number and the speed at which you can train these units.
The minor buff to Hoplite's base Combat Strength (from 25 to 28), together with buffs towards anti-cavalry units, and the long list of nerfs to Swordsman and melee units in general mean now Hoplites can stand above pretty much any early game unit. Do take caution if your neighbors are either [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya), [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam), or [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gaul), however: Maya has the [Hul%27che%20%28Civ6%29](Hul'che) whose Ranged Strength almost rivals a [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman), Vietnam is a highly defensive civilization with huge Combat Strength and bonuses when you fight in their territory, and Gaul can almost instantly unlock [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) at the same time Hoplites are available. If you are taking on these civilizations, train more Hoplites than normal, bolster their strength further with [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy) (which can raise the maximum Combat Strength of a Hoplite to 42, and if you play as Gorgo and slot in 4 Military cards, this Combat Strength can reach 46). Now that's power.
Acropolis.
The Acropolis is a clear frontrunner for the title of "best piece of unique infrastructure in the game." This district is simple enough for even new players to handle properly, yet can grant a huge amount of very early on, allowing Greece under either leader to reliably unlock civics at an unmatched speed.
In terms of gaining a high adjacency bonus, the Acropolis is the polar opposite of the standard Theater Square. The Acropolis gains +1 per adjacent , and +1 additional (+2 in total) if next to a City Center. Note that Acropoli must be built on Hills, which isn't that restrictive, but is something you should bear in mind when choosing places to settle. Since it isn't possible for an Acropolis to be adjacent to more than one City Center, it is also worth turning your attention to the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) and [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex). The Acropolis earns 2 when next to the Government Plaza and a whopping 3 when next to an Entertainment Complex. Similar to how you position the [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29](Hansa) cluster in the middle of 2 or 3 cities, or how you build a cluster as [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan), you can try to find a location that is surrounded by Hills for the Government Plaza or an Entertainment Complex, and then try to put as many Acropoli as possible around it. This is theoretically possible with a [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park) as well, but the Entertainment Complex is unlocked much sooner and the Water Park's placement requirements make this extremely troublesome.
Two wonders that you should consider building early on as Greece are the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle) and [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum). Building the Oracle boosts [Drama%20and%20Poetry%20%28Civ6%29](Drama and Poetry), the civic that unlocks the Acropolis, and in conjunction with [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) and his [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) title, it will give large bonuses to all three kinds of the district can generate. Since you want to build an early Entertainment Complex and surround it with many Acropoli and cities, it is convenient to try to build the Colosseum.
In addition to the , each Acropolis awards 1 when completed. This is particularly useful for [Pericles%20%28Civ6%29](Pericles), whose leader ability functions best when he becomes the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of many [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). Also, each Suzerainty grants 1 per turn, which allows Greece to be competitive for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory).
Victory Types.
Greece's most reliable victory path is Cultural, with numerous advantages toward it from their unique bonuses and infrastructure; Diplomatic also makes effective use of their extra generation and especially Pericles' emphasis on Suzerainty. However, a Diplomatic Victory is somewhat difficult for Gorgo because of her inherent trait of accelerated [Grievances%20%28Civ6%29](Grievance) decay. Gorgo is better used for a Domination Victory, though you may often unintentionally turn your warfare into the foundation for a Cultural Victory because of the massive bonuses from fighting. As stated above, Greece has a strong advantage towards founding a religion, but very little in the way of propagating it. Finally, their weakest victory path is Science, for which Greece has no substantial bonus aside from an extra policy slot for [Rationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Rationalism) or the like.
Counter Strategy.
Greece can be an annoying opponent; their civ ability cannot be taken away from them, and the Hoplite is now a genuinely strong unit if trained in numbers. The leader abilities, however, are easier to counter. 
Gorgo's leader ability only converts to a yield if she can kill units, so focus on protecting your stronger units in particular (as the yield is based on the strength of the killed unit). You'll also be able to sneakily find out information about her simply by selecting one of your units and then hovering over one of hers (they don't even need to be near each other) - the number of Military policies she's running will be shown as a Combat Strength bonus! If this is low, she may not be on a war footing, and if it's high, she's missing out on other policy card bonuses.
Pericles, meanwhile, has a snowballing bonus reliant on claiming Suzerain status over city-states. You can compete with him for these (perhaps saving your energy for those with particularly valuable or synergistic Suzerain bonuses), or you can straight-up capture and potentially raze them! The latter is a particularly appealing option for [Frederick%20Barbarossa%20%28Civ6%29](Frederick Barbarossa), but any civ with early military advantages can consider it. In particular, [Scythian%20%28Civ6%29](Scythia) and [Mongolian%20%28Civ6%29](Mongolia) will find it easier to launch their early cavalry rushes into city-states allied to Pericles than directly into his Hoplite army!