# Grievances (Civ6)

 Grievances is a new gameplay mechanic in "". It replaces the [Warmongering%20%28Civ6%29](warmongering system) as a way of determining diplomatic reactions to a [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leader's) actions towards others, and ties heavily into both the normal diplomatic relations between [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) and into the new [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory).
Mechanics.
 Grievances are a score which each pair of civilizations keep for each other, reflecting serious transgressions which happened between them. For example, denouncing, declaring war or taking a city of the other civilization will all bring up Grievances against you, and vice versa. So will breaking promises, and all other acts which are considered "transgressions". Each of these will bring up the Grievances score of the "victim" against the "transgressor"; the exact balance of this score affects how other civs will judge all such actions. This means that further transgressions perpetrated by the "victim" will be ignored diplomatically by other leaders, as long as the Grievances score is in favor of the offending party.
The exact mechanic of the Grievances score is simple:
If, for example, the Grievances score between Civilizations A and B is in favor of Civilization A, the world will favor Civilization B, and ignore transgressions perpetrated by Civilization B. However, these transgressions will accrue their own Grievance score, tipping the balance towards Civilization A. Eventually, the world will start noticing transgressions by Civilization B and this will affect relations with other leaders, adding a negative score to them.
In essence, Grievances are an equation which is determined on the level of each pair of players, before being brought up as a possible penalty before the other leaders. While the warmonger penalty was a straightforward computation of warlike actions taken by each player, which would cause a direct and immediate negative effect with all other leaders, the Grievances system takes into account many more actions than just combat ones and it also takes note of the actions of the opposite party. Both are then compared against each other and allow players to "justify" aggression with past transgressions committed against them.
It is important to note that the end result of the Grievances system is the same: a diplomatic penalty which the "offending party" eventually receives with all other leaders (or at least with those which are normally intolerant towards violence). However, in most cases this penalty will kick in sometime "after" the incident(s) which has caused the Grievances. This is especially the case with wars; there are many events which generate Grievances at the war's start, while it lasts, and when it ends. The Grievances' effect with other leaders will usually kick in only after peace has been brokered between the warring parties, which is completely logical, since the world needs time to sift through all the different actions which have affected the balance and decide who is to blame after all.
Of course, it is understood that the Grievances system works only for human players against [AI](AI) players. A high Grievance score against a player reduces per turn.
Accruing and losing Grievances.
Under normal circumstances, Grievance scores are in constant motion: actions will accrue Grievances for or against civilizations, and the natural tendency of "forgetting" transgressions will gradually reduce the Grievance scores to 0. Diplomatic relations penalties are only applied while the player has outstanding Grievances with other players; when they vanish, so do the diplomatic penalties with third parties...unless the player has offended those parties specifically.
Most actions in the game have only negative repercussions (i.e., they increase Grievances), but there is one single, powerful action which has very strong positive repercussions: liberating cities. Each such action will instantly "reduce" the Grievances score of the liberating civilization with every other civ which currently holds grudges, including the civ which just lost the city. This is also the only action which reduces Grievances with a civ during wartime. Of course, this is a rare occurrence, and so the main means of "losing" Grievances is the natural decay mentioned above, whose mechanics are described below.
Grievances decay.
As in the real world, leaders tend to gradually forget the transgressions of the past. The Grievances score between each pair of civilizations has a decay rate whenever the two civs are not at war with each other (no decay when they are at war!). This rate depends on the Game Era, and goes from fast to slow, as the game progresses. This mirrors the old [Warmongering%20%28Civ6%29](Warmonger score) differences, as related to Game Eras, and preserves the diplomatic tendency of diminishing tolerance towards aggressive behavior with the coming of modern times. However, instead of the penalties increasing with Game Eras and then decaying at the same rate, now the penalties stay the same with eras, but the decay rate slows down - the leaders will remember transgressions for far longer, and consequently react negatively towards the transgressor for longer periods. To see a breakdown of the Grievances decay causes, mouse over the little number next to the main Grievances number.
The base decay rate of Grievances is equal to 10 - "x" per turn, where "x" is each era after the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era). So, Grievances in the Ancient Era will decay by 10/turn, while in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) they will decay by 7/turn, and so on, with the decay reaching 2/turn by the [Future%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Future Era).
The base decay rate is modified if a party is currently occupying a city or cities of the other party. Depending on which party currently has Grievances with the other, the rate changes by -1 for the "victim" party (the one whose city the enemy is occupying), but by +1 for the occupying party. So, for example, if you are occupying cities of a civilization in the Renaissance Era and they have Grievances with you, the decay rate will be 7 - 1 = 6/turn, but if you have Grievances with them the rate will be 7 + 1 = 8/turn. If on the contrary, they occupy cities of yours and you have Grievances with them, the rate will be 6; if they have Grievances, however, the rate will be 8. Note that it does not matter how many cities you occupy, the decay rate modifier is always 1. However, if you occupy someone's the rate becomes ±3.
It is unclear if the decay rate can be completely negated by these modifiers.
 Grievances against [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo) and [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander) will decay faster than other leaders due to their [Agenda%20%28Civ6%29](agendas). [Ibrahim%20%28Grand%20Vizier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Ibrahim), a unique [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor) for [Suleiman%20%28Civ6%29](Kanuni Suleiman), can increase the decay of Grievances against a particular player with the [Capou%20Agha%20%28Civ6%29](Capou Agha) title.
Causes for Grievances.
Compared to the old warmongering system (where only outright aggression could have international consequences), the gameplay situations which can cause Grievances are more numerous, and include practically the entire field of diplomacy. Here are the general areas where you could expect generation of Grievances:
If Civilization A commits acts that generate Grievances from Civilization B, allies of B will gain 50% of B's Grievances against A, and declared friends of B will gain 25% of B's Grievances against A.
The following table provides a complete list of actions that cause Grievances and their exact numerical values. Note that using [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) when declaring wars will also reduce all war-connected Grievances-generating actions.