# Guru (Civ6)

The Guru is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](religious unit) introduced to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the [Civilization%20VI%20Fall%202017%20Update](Fall 2017 Update). It can only be purchased with in a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) that has a majority [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) and a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) with a [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple) (or one of its replacements).
Strategy.
The Guru is unique for its ability to heal itself and all religious units in surrounding [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles). Its Heal ability restores up to 40 [HP](HP) to all affected units. What's more, its power doesn't depend on the unit's health, which means that a unit with as little as 1 HP will be able to survive and still help an attacking religious group immensely.
In theory, Gurus are good when competing against other religious [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religious](Religious Victory), since they enable [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) and [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles) to march much deeper into unfriendly territory and spread their wisdom. In practice, however, Gurus are not very commonly used, even by religious players, simply because they don't directly help advance towards a Religious Victory. They also prove difficult to use effectively, since there are few situations in which you can heal more than two surrounding units per charge with a Guru. The easiest way to convert a foreign civilization to your religion is to convert multiple cities at once (similar to [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) mechanics and conquering), so your Missionaries and Apostles will likely spread out rather than travel together. They are also a liability in theological combat since their job is to venture outside of friendly territory next to Missionaries and Apostles, but their low Religious Strength makes them vulnerable to enemy [Inquisitor%20%28Civ6%29](Inquisitors) and Apostles. Even if you build [Meenakshi%20Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Meenakshi Temple), which reduces the cost of Gurus and allows them to provide Religious Strength and bonuses to adjacent religious units, you should use Gurus sparingly - even if you have a Religious Victory in mind, your two main goals are spreading your religion and defending against other religions, and Gurus don't directly help with either.