# Hacienda (Civ6)

+1 {{Production6}} 
+0.5 {{Housing6}} 
+1 {{Food6}} from every 2 adjacent [Plantation%20%28Civ6%29](Plantations) (increased to every Plantation with [Replaceable%20Parts%20%28Civ6%29](Replaceable Parts)) 
Plantations and Haciendas receive +1 {{Production6}} for every 2 adjacent Haciendas (increased to every Hacienda with [Rapid%20Deployment%20%28Civ6%29](Rapid Deployment))
The Hacienda is the unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) of the [Gran%20Colombian%20%28Civ6%29](Gran Colombian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on [Grassland%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland), [Grassland%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland Hills), [Plains%20%28Civ6%29](Plains) or [Plains%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Plains Hills) [Tiles%20%28Civ6%29](tiles).
Strategy.
Arguably the least impactful piece in Gran Colombian toolkit, the Hacienda is more of a cherry on top for such a powerful arsenal than actual major component to victory. Unlocked in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era), the Hacienda is one of the latest unique improvements in the game, and it provides Gran Colombia with some welcome bonuses, but not necessary for a pure domination civilization. Since Gran Colombia can start their conquest as soon as the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) (when they earn their first [Comandante%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Comandante General)), by the time the Hacienda is unlocked, they most likely have more cities than they ever need. The main goal is to keep these conquered cities [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](loyal) and [Amenities%20%28Civ6%29](happy), since when you have an ultra-wide empire from all of your conquering, not every single city needs to be at its most productive. The {{Housing6}} and {{Food6}} component of this improvement, therefore, is decent but not as beneficial to Gran Colombia as it is for other, more peaceful civilizations. {{Gold6}} and {{Production6}} are great for churning out and supporting a large army, but the amount provided by one Hacienda at this point in the game is not that impressive - not to mention Gran Colombia does not have a [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias) towards Plantation resources, and the {{Production6}} scaling at Rapid Deployment is too late to have a strong impact.
Overall, this is a decent improvement in theory for any civilization that will not go all-out in conquest mode, since it provides a lot of {{Housing6}} to build up mega-cities with high {{Population6}} Population; unfortunately, that is just not what Gran Colombia cares about. Put this improvement in your major {{Production6}} hubs, like your {{Capital6}} or major cities that you just conquered, to keep them growing fast for extra yields, but again, your path to victory does not rely heavily on it. Of course, the Hacienda can be more useful if you have a peaceful approach with Gran Colombia and focus on building up your infrastructure, but this civilization does not have any major bonus towards any other victory condition outside domination.