# Hagia Sophia (Civ5)

Strategy.
The Hagia Sophia can serve as a means of enhancing a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization's) [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](religion) without waiting for enough {{Faith5}} to accumulate for the next [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ5%29](Great Prophet). Instead, a civilization can use the accumulated {{Faith5}} for [Missionary%20%28Civ5%29](Missionaries) to spread their religion early.
Like all [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great People) provided by either a [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](Wonder) or by completing the [Liberty%20%28Civ5%29](Liberty) policy tree, the Great Prophet created by this wonder will increase the cost of subsequent Great Prophets. The Hagia Sophia appears in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Medieval Era), so it will be difficult to save the {{Faith5}} it generates to buy Great People in the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era) without having it spent on Great Prophets automatically.
Nonetheless, the instant Great Prophet can be used to create a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ5%29](Holy Site), which provides a significant amount of faith (and other benefits for a civilization that completes the [Piety%20%28Civ5%29](Piety) policy tree). This is most powerful in early [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras), especially when a civilization has access to [Mosque%20%28Civ5%29](Mosques), [Pagoda%20%28Civ5%29](Pagodas), [Monastery%20%28Civ5%29](Monasteries), or [Cathedral%20%28Civ5%29](Cathedrals) to further invest in the {{Faith5}}. The Great Prophet can also be used to enhance their religion. Considering that timing is critical with religion, having a chance at grabbing a powerful follower belief such as Religious Community before another civilization does makes the Hagia Sophia something to consider.
Finally, since the Hagia Sophia provides a free [Temple%20%28Civ5%29](Temple), a civilization should avoid building a Temple in the [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) in which it plans to build this wonder.