# Hanging Gardens (Civ6)

The Hanging Gardens are an {{Link6|Ancient Era}} {{Link6|Wonder}} in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built along a {{Link6|River}}.
Strategy.
One of the earliest Wonders in the game, the Hanging Gardens are not generally worth the time and effort. The major selling point of this Wonder is 15% bonus growth to all cities. This may sound tempting, until you realize that 15% applies to the excess {{Food6}} the cities have (the amount of {{Food6}} left over after subtracting the {{Food6}} consumed by {{Population6}} Population), not the total {{Food6}}. If you open the Toggle City Details on the city panel, except for a few civilizations or city locations, rarely ever you will have an excess of 10 {{Food6}}, which in that case will result in 1.5 {{Food6}} extra, less than a Grassland tile with no improvement. Even if you have a lot of excess {{Food6}} in your cities, its worth is a bit wasted if your cities have {{Housing6}} problems, which are quite common in practice. The +2 {{Housing6}} bonus is helpful to the city that builds the Hanging Gardens, but since they do not provide any other bonus yields, you may want to forgo building them unless you have multiple cities that can support the additional {{Citizen6}} Population. The [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) that can make optimal use of this Wonder are the ones with bonuses to generate extra {{Food6}} and infrastructure that provide {{Housing6}} early in the game, most notably the [Indian%20%28Civ6%29](Indians) ([Stepwell%20%28Civ6%29](Stepwell)), the [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese) ([Mbanza%20%28Civ6%29](Mbanza)), the [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya) ([Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms)), and the [Khmer%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer) ([Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts) and [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites)). Civilizations that love settling next to [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) can also try to build this Wonder, most notably [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) (tier 2 Floodplains [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](bias)), since [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](Floods) can provide a healthy amount of excess {{Food6}} to grow your cities, but again, you would have to invest a lot into {{Housing6}} infrastructure to truly make this Wonder worthwhile.
When playing in the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), this Wonder is slightly more worth building, as it prolongs the {{Lifespan6}} Lifespan of all Heroes that you earn. It is especially useful for Heroes that are used for conquest and militaristic purposes, but not so much for Heroes who rely on their powerful {{ActionCharges6}} Charge-based abilities more than their prowess on the battlefield. It is also worth noting that 10% longer {{Lifespan6}} Lifespan means 5 more turns for [Sun%20Wukong%20%28Civ6%29](Sun Wukong), 4 more turns for [Himiko%20%28Civ6%29](Himiko), and only 3 more turns for anyone else, so it may not be worth investing in a Wonder that is largely useless otherwise unless you know you can pull off miracles on those extra turns. This extra {{Lifespan6}} Lifespan seems even more pointless when you consider that summoning or recalling a Hero in a city with a [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine) grants the same bonus.