# Hansa (Civ6)

The Hansa is a unique {{District6}} of the [German%20%28Civ6%29](German) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Hansa:
Strategy.
Arguably the strongest weapon in the German arsenal, and one of the most revered pieces of unique infrastructure in the game, very similar to [Hanse%20%28Civ5%29](its counterpart in "Civilization V: Brave New World"), the Hansa turns Germany into a {{Production6}} powerhouse. In vanilla and "Rise and Fall", just try to look for areas rich in resources (strategy, bonus, and/or luxury), settle your cities close together so that you can have a central core of multiple Commercial Hubs and multiple Hansas, and you will be off to a good start. In this respect, the Germans are very similar to the [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japanese), since they also love closely-settled cities for high adjacency bonuses, so you can apply the experience you have playing as the Japanese here to get the maximum adjacency bonus out of the Hansa. When founding new cities, be sure to make them in pairs so you can place your Hansas and [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) in a diamond position - place two Commercial Hubs near each other with one [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) in between them, then place the Hansas in between them, adjacent to each other, to get a huge {{Production6}} bonus.
In "Gathering Storm", the basic Industrial Zone gets even stronger, since it now receives major adjacency bonuses from [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals), [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams), and [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts), making the Hansa even more of a beast. The basics of this {{District6}} is unchanged, as you still need to prioritize settling in resource-rich areas, but now, with new adjacency rules in place, each Hansa can grant up to 50 {{Production6}} if planned properly. Before, you can only get a decent Hansa if your cities are in resourch-rich areas (which is not a guarantee), and close to your other cities, but now, even a standalone city in an area with few resources can turn into a bustling {{Production6}} center with a bit of city planning.
The best thing about this is under [Frederick%20Barbarossa%20%28Civ6%29](Frederick Barbarossa), every form of government receives an extra {{MilitaryPolicy6}} Military policy slot, which can always be dedicated to run [Craftsmen%20%28Civ6%29](Craftsmen), at least until [Five-Year%20Plan%20%28Civ6%29](Five-Year Plan) (an {{EconomicPolicy6}} Economic policy card) is unlocked. Note that this strategic Industrial Zone planning is not exclusive to Germany, it can be used by any other civilizations, since only the major adjacency bonus from Commercial Hubs is exclusive to the Hansa. Mastering city planning with Germany is a good start when you try to improve your gameplay, especially in a Scientific Victory where {{Production6}} is key. Also, highly compact cities allow for efficient counterespionage, where only one Spy is capable of covering everything in a mega {{District6}} complex.