# Happiness (Civ5)

It is worth noting that "real" problems like food shortages or slow cultural growth have no bearing on the level of contentment of the people - more important factors are instead the overcrowding of [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities), or such visibly vicious acts as conquering foreign cities and razing them, which have to be countered by the state with the old principle: "Keep people entertained and distract them with shiny baubles to make them forget their problems!"
Levels of Happiness.
There are three levels of {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness: happy, unhappy, and very unhappy.
An empire with {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness of zero or greater is considered happy. Happy civilizations grow as normal, and each turn's {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness value is added to the empire's {{GoldenAge5}} counter. We could say that such empires are well governed internally, although that doesn't necessarily mean that they will be successful or competitive.
A civilization with {{Nowrap|{{MalcontentIcon5}} Happiness}} below zero is unhappy. An unhappy empire causes each [City%20%28Civ5%29](city's) {{Food5}} surplus to be reduced by 75%, drastically reducing {{Population5}} growth. In "Brave New World", there are additional effects; see [%23Brave%20New%20World](below) for more info.
A civilization with {{Nowrap|{{UnhappinessIcon5}} Happiness}} of -10 or lower is very unhappy. A very unhappy empire does not grow at all, suffers a {{Production5}} penalty, receives a nasty [Combat%20%28Civ5%29](combat) penalty (-33%) for all its [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units), and cannot train [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers) (though they can still use their existing Settlers to found new cities).
When {{Nowrap|{{UnhappinessIcon5}} Happiness}} drops to -20, the civilization's cities go into revolt, and rebels start appearing throughout the empire, based on the number of cities. The rebels are similar to [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians), but appear in groups. Once a group of rebels spawns, another group will not appear for a while. Again, for the exact effects of Unhappiness in "Brave New World", see [%23Brave%20New%20World](below).
Happiness Sources.
In order to counteract {{UnhappinessIcon5}} Unhappiness and continue an empire's growth, {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness must be increased. There are many ways to do so.
Global vs. Local Happiness.
Happiness sources are divided loosely into Local and Global. The main difference is that while Global sources contribute to Happiness unconditionally, Local sources can only contribute up to the Population number of the respective city. This means that if a city has 5 {{Population5}} and sources of local happiness adding up to 8 {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness, the actual amount that will be contributed to your empire's {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness will be 5, not 8.
The logic behind this distinction is sound: Sources of Local Happiness are the most common entertainment buildings (Circus, Colosseum, etc.), which provide shallow, low-level amusement for the masses. On the other hand, sources of Global Happiness are Luxuries, Social Policies, etc., which all provide deeper, more meaningful reasons for your empire to be happy.
{{Happiness (Civ5)/Table: per annexed city|indent=1}}
"Brave New World".
The first thing on Happiness in "Brave New World" is the effects of an Unhappy empire have been changed - now each point of {{Nowrap|{{MalcontentIcon5}} Unhappiness}} below 0 gives a penalty of -2% {{Production5}} and {{Gold5}} output (applies directly to the output of each city), as well as -2% Combat Strength for all units. Effect on city growth is the same as before (as if you were adding only 1/4 of the normal amount you would otherwise add to your Food Basket).
At the {{UnhappinessIcon5}} Unhappiness level of -10 ("Very Unhappy"), {{Population5}} growth stops completely, you can't train Settlers anymore, and rebellions erupt at regular intervals in the form of "Barbarian" units appearing right near a city of yours, using your most up-to-date units based on your technological progress. {{Production5}}, {{Gold5}} and Combat Strength continue to lower steadily.
Finally, when your empire's {{UnhappinessIcon5}} Unhappiness reaches -20, given your Public Opinion is low, some of your cities may start to revolt and change their allegiance to other empires following their Preferred Ideology. The effect is as if the other empire suddenly acquired the city in question. Border cities are most likely to defect, and the civilization they go to is the one with the Preferred Ideology whose {{Capital5}} is closest to the city.
Clearly, this presents a grave danger for your empire, while at the same time the new gradual worsening of the situation feels more natural (as opposed to simply having either an "Unhappy" or a "Very Unhappy" stage).
Strategy.
Keeping your empire happy is difficult, but important. The main thing you need to remember is that your empire gets gradually unhappy, as time goes - whether it is from {{Population5}} growth, or due to more cities being founded or conquered. To counter this, the first thing you need to do in the first stage of the game, is get access to as many [Resources%20%28Civ5%29%23Luxury%20resources](luxury resources) as you can get hold onto. Later, you'll have to depend more on buildings and Social Policies, especially when Ideology kicks in. Keep in mind, however, that the Local Happiness produced by buildings (which is the most accessible way to raise {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness) is limited in most cases to +6 per city (higher with access to certain resources, which in turn allows construction of more {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness-boosting buildings), and you "will" have to procure additional ways to keep your people happy. Try to think ahead of time so as to avoid crisis periods.
Try to keep your empire happy at all times, but don't despair if your empire's {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness becomes negative for a few turns - it's not the end of the world. Try to trade for some more luxuries, or build {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness-boosting buildings, and think of some long-term strategy to boost your {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness (such as building up to a particular Social Policy or building a particular Wonder). Or, try to eliminate any extra {{UnhappinessIcon5}} Unhappiness, for example from Occupied cities.
Acquiring the favor of {{CitystateIcon5}} [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states) is a useful strategy: not only do city-states provide all their luxury resources to their ally, but {{Nowrap|{{CitystateIcon5|mercantile}} mercantile}} city-states also provide +3 {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness to each civilization which is at least {{Nowrap|{{CitystateIcon5|mercantile|friendly}} Friends}} with them. {{Nowrap|{{CitystateIcon5|cultured}} Cultured}} city-states can also make useful {{Nowrap|{{CitystateIcon5|cultured|friendly}} friends}} and {{Nowrap|{{CitystateIcon5|cultured|allied}} allies}} since they aid in the acquisition of {{Link5|Social policies}} (some of which are key to maintaining a happy civilization).
In "Brave New World", you will have to deal with Public Opinion where your civ will be influenced by other civs with higher {{Tourism5}} rates than your own. If you aren't playing a culture civ, you might find your {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness suffering because of this.
One solution is to try to improve your tourism rate slightly to overcome this, but you may also have to adopt some of the {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness-oriented tenets of your Ideology in order to even out these losses. If it gets absolutely unmanageable, you can adopt the Ideology of the person presently leading in tourism, but this will cost you all of your Ideological Tenets thus far, and so it is not advisable unless you are desperate.
In [vanilla](vanilla) "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" and "", adopting [Order%20%28Civ5%29](Order) generates 1 {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness per city.
Happiness bonus from Aristocracy doesn't apply to the population of puppet cities. Monarchy gives -50% {{UnhappinessIcon5}} Unhappiness from population which stacks multiplicatively with other similar effects, for example with [Indian%20%28Civ5%29](Indian) ability for a total of 25% {{UnhappinessIcon5}} Unhappiness from population.
There are also numerous tenets in each Ideology which boost Happiness, including [Universal%20Healthcare%20%28Civ5%29](Universal Healthcare) which is available to all three.
Founder beliefs provide Global {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness; Pantheon and Follower beliefs provide Local {{HappinessIcon5}} Happiness.