# Happiness (Civ2)

Happiness in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)" is a mechanic that determines the general satisfaction of {{Link|2|citizen}}s within a given {{Link|2|city}}. In addition to its contribution to [%23Scoring](game score), maintaining happiness is important for a {{Link|2|Civilizations|civilization}}'s internal stability. When citizens are unhappy, city {{Link|2|production}} [%23Civil%20disorder](shuts down), and the population is more susceptible to {{Link|2|Espionage|sec=Incite Revolt|foreign subversion}}; under {{Link|2|Democracy}}, sustained riots will trigger {{Link|2|Anarchy|government collapse}}. Conversely, happy cities provide [%23We%20Love%20the%20King%20Day](improved production), and are more resistant to subversion.
Happiness is chiefly managed through two tracks: mitigation of unhappiness with [%23Improvements](improvements) and [%23Wonders](Wonders), and promotion of happiness via [%23Luxuries](luxury spending). The {{Link|2|Advisor|sec=List of advisors|Attitude Advisor}} provides an at-a-glance overview of the empire's happiness.
Happiness levels.
Each citizen working a {{Link|2|Map|tile}} is coloured to one of four ranks of happiness, ordered left to right in the {{Link|2|city screen}}:
Modifiers generally raise a citizen's happiness to the next available level: Angry to Unhappy, Unhappy to Content, and Content to Happy. However, [%23Luxuries](luxuries) prioritize converting Angry citizens directly to Happy.
Happiness factors.
Happiness is determined by a number of factors, some specific to individual cities, and some applied across the civilization. Modifiers are applied in a sequential order, listed here as they appear in the 'Happy' window of the city screen:
Difficulty and empire size.
The player's {{Link2|difficulty level}} determines cities' base level of contentment before unhappy citizens appear:
A civilization controlling many cities experiences additional unhappiness. The base "riot factor" is defined by {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Rules|sec=Cosmic|game rules}} (14 in a standard game), modified by difficulty, {{Link|2|government}}, and {{Link|2|map}} size.{{refn|group=note|name=riotfactor|The exact formula is outlined by Prof. Garfield [https%3A//forums.civfanatics.com/threads/hapiness.322213/post-8181404](here) and detailed in a [https%3A//forums.civfanatics.com/threads/hapiness.322213/post-9212476](subsequent post). Note that the riot factor is applied in a staggered pattern based on cities' founding order, and that foreign cities captured or lost have a one-turn lag before their effect is computed.}} The more cities a civ controls beyond this optimum, the greater the unhappiness across the empire; this is the principal source of {{Civ2 citizen|angry}} [%23Happiness%20levels](Angry) citizens.
Luxuries.
Happy citizens are primarily earned through {{Luxury2}} {{Link|2|Luxuries}}. For every two luxuries generated in the city, one {{Civ2 citizen|content|text=y}} citizen becomes {{Civ2 citizen|happy|text=y}}; if no content citizens exist, luxuries instead make one {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy|text=y}} citizen {{Civ2 citizen|content|text=y}}, or one {{Civ2 citizen|angry|text=y}} citizen {{Civ2 citizen|happy|text=y}}.
The proportion of {{Trade2}} {{Link|2|Trade (yield)|Trade}} devoted to luxuries is determined by the civilization's {{Link|2|tax rate}}. {{Link|2|pre=cat|Economic improvements}} including {{Link|2|Marketplace}}s, {{Link|2|Bank}}s, and {{Link|2|Stock Exchange}}s increase a city's net Luxury output by 50% each; {{Link|2|Superhighways}} do not increase luxuries directly, but boost the city's {{Link|2|trade route}} revenue. Luxuries can also be generated locally by {{Link|2|Specialist}}s: each {{Civ2 citizen|entertainer|text=y}} supplies 2 Luxuries.
Improvements.
Several {{Link|2|city improvements}} work to reduce unhappy citizens, with certain {{Link|2|advance}}s increasing their effectiveness:
Government.
In addition to mitigating unhappiness from [%23Difficulty%20and%20empire%20size](city sprawl),{{refn|group=note|name=riotfactor}} different {{Link|2|government}}s provide specific happiness-related effects that can be beneficial or deleterious:
Martial law.
"Military" governments ({{Link|2|Anarchy}}, {{Link|2|Despotism}}, {{Link|2|Monarchy}}, and {{Link|2|Communism}}) feature martial law: up to three {{Link|2|pre=cat|Military units|combat units}} stationed in a city automatically suppress unhappiness, at a rate of -1 {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy}} per unit. Under Communism, martial law is doubly effective (-2 {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy}} per unit).
Democracy and Republic{{Anchor|War weariness}}.
Under "civilian" governments ({{Link|2|Republic}} and {{Link|2|Democracy}}), military units deployed in the field (not garrisoned in a city or occupying a {{Link|2|fortress}} within three tiles of an owned city) cause unhappiness ("war weariness") in their home city.{{refn|group=note|name=airsad|{{Link|2|pre=cat|Air units}} follow special rules: interceptors ({{Link|2|Fighter}}s and {{Link|2|Stlth Ftr.}}s) do "not" provoke unhappiness, while all others cause unhappiness even when stationed in cities. See [%23Modding](the Modding section) for details.}} Under Republic, each unit after the first creates one {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy|text=y}} citizen; under Democracy, "every" unit creates "two" {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy|text=y}} citizens. {{Link|2|Police Station}}s and the {{Link|2|Women's Suffrage}} {{Link|2|Wonder}} mitigate war weariness.
Wonders.
Happiness-related {{Link|2|Wonder}}s can be divided into two groups: Wonders that modify or substitute for {{Link|2|pre=cat|happiness improvements}}, and Wonders that provide happiness directly.
Celebration and Disorder.
At sufficient happiness or unhappiness, a city will host a celebration in the leader's honour or descend into disorder, respectively. Celebration and disorder are calculated at the start of the player's turn, and will persist for as long as their conditions are met. If enabled in {{Link|2|Game settings|sec=City report options|City Report Options}}, notification popups are issued when a change in happiness status occurs.
Civil disorder.
Civil disorder occurs when a city's {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy|text=y}} / {{Civ2 citizen|angry|text=y}} citizens outnumber its {{Civ2 citizen|happy|text=y}} citizens. During disorder, economic activity ({{Link|2|Trade (yield)|Trade}}, {{Link|2|Science}}, {{Link|2|Production}}) is suspended, although {{Link|2|Food}} is still stockpiled. Cities in disorder are also cheaper to {{Link|2|Espionage|sec=Incite Revolt|subvert}}.
We Love the King Day.
"We Love the King Day",{{refn|group=note|The exact name varies based on the civ leader's government title, eg. under Democracy it renders as "We Love the President Day". For this reason, celebration is sometimes referenced as "We Love the ____ Day".}} also known as celebration and abbreviated WLtKD, occurs when at least half a city's population is {{Civ2 citizen|happy|text=y}} and no {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy|text=y}} / {{Civ2 citizen|angry|text=y}} citizens are present. A city requires a minimum population of 3 to celebrate. During celebration, the city experiences a production bonus based on its government type:
Scoring.
Happiness directly influences the player's {{Link|2|Victory|sec=Scoring|game score}}. Each {{Civ2 citizen|happy|text=y}} citizen supplies 2 points, and each {{Civ2 citizen|content|text=y}} or {{Civ2 citizen|entertainer}}/{{Civ2 citizen|tax collector}}/{{Civ2 citizen|scientist}} Specialist citizen supplies 1. {{Civ2 citizen|unhappy|text=y}} and {{Civ2 citizen|angry|text=y}} citizens provide no points.
Civilopedia entry.
Once you have built a certain number of cities, your citizens start to worry about your ability to effectively govern your civilization. When this occurs, additional unhappy citizens appear in each city.
The number of cities you can build before causing additional unhappiness is based on a number of factors, including game difficulty level and government type. The number of cities is higher for more advanced governments and lower levels of difficulty.
Modding.
Cities' default unhappiness threshold is defined at Line 8 of the {{mono|@COSMIC}} section in {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Rules|Rules.txt}}, while the "riot factor" for empire size is defined at Line 9. In "", citizens' score value can be customized on Line 23; the given integer is the bonus from Content/Specialists, and is doubled for Happy.
Most other happiness mechanics are hard-coded. Certain {{Link|2|advance}}s modify the effects of city improvements: {{Link|2|Temple}}s only work if a civ possesses {{Link|2|Ceremonial Burial}} and/or {{Link|2|Mysticism}}; {{Link|2|Colosseum}}s are boosted by {{Link|2|Electronics}}; and {{Link|2|Theology}} and {{Link|2|Communism}} increase and decrease {{Link|2|Cathedral}}s' effect, respectively.
War weariness from {{Link|2|pre=cat|air units}} under [%23Democracy%20and%20Republic](civilian governments){{refn|group=note|name=airsad}} varies based on their {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Units|sec=Roles|assigned role}}: Air Superiority units do not cause unhappiness, while all other types{{refn|group=note|Excepting Diplomacy and Trade, which nullify upkeep including war weariness.}} continue to incur unhappiness even when stationed in cities.