# Harbor (Civ6)

International Destination: +3 {{Gold6}} 
The Harbor is a specialty {{District6}} in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" focused on naval power and maritime trade. It requires [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation) and must be built on a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) or [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) adjacent to land.
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Harbor:
Strategy.
The Harbor is one of the more important districts in both single- and [Multiplayer%20%28Civ6%29](multiplayer) games. The most important bonus from it is +1 {{TradeRoute6}} capacity, but the extra {{Housing6}} from its buildings is also a great bonus. The extra {{Food6}} and {{Production6}} from domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s are important early game boosts.
As sea tiles are often barren in "Civilization VI", one should avoid directly settling by the coast. Here is where the Harbor comes in handy: it allows for ship production and sea trade while allowing players to place the otherwise [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) in-land. This helps players access in-land resources, fresh water, and a greater number of tiles for districts for their "coastal" cities. That said, maximizing the Harbor's {{Gold6}} output requires founding a city on the coast, as the Harbor gets an [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) from being next to the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center).
For ship production, the Harbor fills the role of an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) for ships. The Harbor also allows for the construction of many coastal [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders), which is something to consider for single-player games.
Between building [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) and Harbors, whichever gives higher adjacency bonus at the time should probably receive priority. Both districts can also make a nice combo, especially when combined with the City Center, since Commercial Hubs receive adjacency bonuses for being next to a Harbor and Harbors receive adjacency bonuses for being next to a City Center. While {{Gold6}} isn't the most important yield, extra early {{Gold6}} production is still helpful. It is also nice to have at least one Harbor for sea exploration (in case you didn't settle any cities on the coast). [Map%20%28Civ6%29](Map) discovery via sea can be important in single-player games, particularly with [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent)-heavy maps.
In "" constructing a Harbor on a Lake tile and connecting the lake to the sea with a [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canal) or two will give you an easily-protected shipbuilding yard. Additionally, you will still be able to use the district's secondary bonuses mentioned above, and even construct sea-based wonders (if the lake is big enough, of course).