# Health (CivBE)

 and represent the physical and social integrity of a [Colony%20%28CivBE%29](colony). In many ways, it is similar to the [Happiness%20%28Civ5%29](Happiness/Unhappiness) relationship from "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)": it is affected by most of the same factors (number of [City%20%28CivBE%29](cities), , etc.), and it provides positive or negative bonuses depending on the balance of the two. However, since there are no [Golden%20Age](Golden Age)s in "", the positive health state of a colony instead brings a series of constant bonuses (as long as the positive balance is maintained at certain levels). Note that unlike in "Civilization V", does "not" affect combat effectiveness of [Units%20%28CivBE%29](units).
Computing and.
 and are computed at both the city level and the colony level. However, the effects are applied colony-wide.
City.
City is affected by the following:
City cannot exceed 1 per .
Colony.
Colony is equal to the sum of all city health plus any colony-wide modifiers. These include:
Health levels.
A colony has a net health based on its total minus its total . Depending on the net health of a colony, certain bonuses apply to the entire colony.
Strategy.
Health is good indicator of overall colony performance. Because it affects so many other stats (, , , etc.), Health can also be considered the most important stat. Low Health can cripple your colony, whereas high Health can bring you desirable bonuses across the board.
Keeping Health in line takes effort. While Unhealth constantly rises with the growth of your colony, Health often lags and rarely exceeds it (except perhaps late in a game). This is due to the cap on each city's Health contribution. There are plenty of sources of Health: buildings, Virtues, and even [Tile%20improvement%20%28CivBE%29](tile improvements). But only Virtues are "not" linked to (capped by) the of individual cities.
Said another way, the combined Health from all city-based sources can never exceed the Unhealth created by that city. If you have 10 Citizens, you can only have a maximum local contribution of 10 Health, even though the different buildings, tiles, etc., add up to 15 or more. In the best case scenario, this helps you zero out a given city's Unhealth created by , but not extra Unhealth created by number of cities and Specialists.
Here is where Virtue-related Health kicks in. You should look for sources of Health within your chosen Virtue category (each one has them) and develop them. Sometimes this means growing your army; sometimes, getting as many Trade units as possible. Regardless of what it is, you should turn this into your number two or three priority in your entire game strategy (right after colony growth and expansion planning and [Affinities%20%28CivBE%29](Affinity) development), or you risk being permanently saddled with negative Health. At a minimum, it means slower scientific and cultural development.
On the other hand, having negative Health isn't as bad as negative in "Civilization V". You can manage lengthy periods of low Health; they will hamper your development somewhat, but as long as you don't reach -10, the effect is nowhere near as severe. Still, don't stop looking for ways to increase Health. Plan your tech progress so you unlock new sources of Health, so as to keep up with individual city growth.
Some [Wonders%20%28CivBE%29](wonders) can help in managing your health levels with some even having impacts on all of your cities. If you can't help going lower than -10, consider building the [Xenonova%20%28CivBE%29](Xenonova) as the global impacts of negative health will be halved, giving you some breathing space. The [Promethean%20%28CivBE%29](Promethean) wonder will negate all unhealth from any buildings or tiles in a city, making a great structure for a city with many [Manufactory%20%28CivBE%29](Manufactories) and [Petroleum%20Well%20%28CivBE%29](Petroleum Wells). [The%20Akkorokamui%20%28CivBE%29](The Akkorokamui) will reduce 50% of the unhealth generated by citizens in a city. Towards the end game, look into building the [Resurrection%20Device%20%28CivBE%29](Resurrection Device), especially if you have high health levels. The 50% boost applies to all of your cities.