# Hercules (Civ6)

Hercules is a [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29%23Heroes](Hero) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". He is exclusive to the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack).
Strategy.
Like all Hero units, Hercules' Strength increases with the progression of the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), as shown in the table below.
Hercules' Labor is a simple yet effective ability. Being able to instantly construct any district for 2 Charges makes him an excellent choice for any [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) at any point in the game, especially in the early game when you need to build up your infrastructure quickly. With this ability, recalling Hercules in the mid- and late game can still be useful, since he can finish up to 3 different s. When you compare the amount of spent to bring him back to using [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha) to buy s using , Hercules is the much better deal. He is also helpful when are pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory), as he can construct multiple [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceports) instantly.
Hercules' Rage is also another great active ability. At a cost of 1 Charge, he can remove all buildings from an enemy district and also pillage that district, which is especially damaging late in the game when districts are filled with buildings. This ability goes well with Hercules' aggressive nature depicted by his Combat Strength: he has the highest Combat Strength of all Heroes, which scales well into the mid- and late game.