# Heroes &amp; Legends (Civ6)

Heroes &amp; Legends is the fifth [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack). It includes twelve unique Hero units from the world's myths and legends, each with their own special abilities, which can be discovered by [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](diplomacy) and exploration.
Contents.
The twelve Heroes are based on mythological heroes from various cultures, such as King Arthur and Sun Wukong. These Heroes can be discovered during standard gameplay, as well as via the special [Heroic%20Tales%20%28Civ6%29](Heroic Tales) [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project). Each Hero can only be claimed by one [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization), but one civilization can own multiple Heroes. Though Heroes only last for a set number of turns (referred to as their Lifespan), they have quite extraordinary special abilities and are often mighty warriors. Besides that, they leave behind Heroic Relics which continue providing benefits to their home civilization throughout the game.
Later, Heroes can be called upon in times of great need using in their home city. Recalling Heroes refreshes their Lifespan and charges, but the cost increases with each appearance, and each Hero can only be recalled once per [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era).
Mechanics.
Discovery of Heroes.
Before you can attract Heroes, you have to first discover their existence. Besides running the Heroic Tales project, you can discover a new Hero by doing any of the following:
Many Heroes can be discovered by sending s to the same city-state. However, the that helps you become the Suzerain will not discover two Heroes simultaneously.
Heroes can also be discovered by encountering them with one of your units. In this case, it is considered already claimed by the civilization that owns it, but that also means you now have one less Hero that you don't know about!
Summoning and using Heroes.
The process of getting a Hero (referred to as "summoning") is quite different from attracting , and is much simpler. When Heroes are discovered, every city with a [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument) can run a special [Devotion%20%28Civ6%29](Devotion) project dedicated to this Hero - when the project finishes, the respective Hero will appear in this city. The very first Devotion project you run is cheap (costing 20 on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed)), while subsequent Devotion projects are quite a bit more expensive. One civilization can claim many Heroes, but each city can claim only one Hero - a city which is already home to a Hero cannot summon any others. The relevant projects in this city won't appear anymore, because the citizens there have already given their spiritual allegiance. Once a Hero is claimed, they will consider the city that summons them their home. 
When a Hero dies or their Lifespan expires, they will leave behind a Heroic Relic, which will be displayed in the city's Monument. They will also leave another hidden symbolic object (which also counts as a Heroic Relic), which will remain buried in the tile where they die until it is excavated by an [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologist). After that, this Relic will also be displayed in their home city, if there is still free space in the Monument. That's why you should always remember the spot where the Hero dies the first time, and put a [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) pin on it so you can excavate it later. You can excavate Heroic Relics of Heroes belonging to other civilizations as long as there are enough Heroic Relic slots in the Monuments. Archaeologists will not consume a charge when digging up Heroic Relics. Only when a city completes a Devotion project to a Hero will the Monument of that city gain the two Heroic Relic slots. Each Heroic Relic grants 2 , 2 and 6 .
Just like [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders), Heroes are unique - each Hero can only belong to one civilization, and if another civilization claims a Hero first while you are running the corresponding Devotion project, you will be refunded only a fraction of the cost.
Once summoned, Heroes will not change their affiliation. They have to be recalled by the same civilization within their home city. If the ownership of the home city changes, the Hero will still survive until they expire or die, but the Hero cannot be recalled until the city returns to its original owner. If the home city is razed, the Hero is dead forever. A Hero can only be recalled once per era, at the cost of . When recalled, Heroes will have all their Charges and Lifespan fully restored. Unlike other [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) that have to be purchased with , Heroes can move, use their abilities, or attack in the same turn they are summoned or recalled.
All Heroes belong to a specific unit class - [Anansi%20%28Civ6%29](Anansi) is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged unit), [Mulan%20%28Civ6%29](Mulan) is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged%20cavalry](ranged cavalry unit), [Hercules%20%28Civ6%29](Hercules) is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit), and so on - and they will function just like a normal unit of that classification. (The only exception is [Himiko%20%28Civ6%29](Himiko), who is classified as a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Civilian](civilian unit) but functions more like a , since she cannot be captured like [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) and [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers).) However, the Hero classification does give them several advantages over normal military units, apart from superior Combat Strength or Ranged Strength:
Heroes' abilities.
Except for Himiko, all Heroes are military units with combat statistics that scale according to era, but are always slightly higher than other units' that belong to the same era. This gives them an edge against all current units, but it does "not" make them immortal! Keep in mind that since all Heroes have a limited Lifespan, and their combat statistics will depend only on the era they are summoned/recalled (i.e., those statistics will not be adjusted when the era changes), it is a good idea to refrain from summoning them at the end of an era.
Most Heroes have a special ability that allows them to ignore penalties in some (or all) types of [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain). They also have increased compared to other units.
Besides basic combat abilities, almost all Heroes also have active abilities which they can use only once per turn. Some abilities are limited by the number of charges, but some can be used by the Hero every turn until they die. For example, while [Maui%20%28Civ6%29](Maui) may create brand new resources a maximum of 4 times per Lifespan, [Hippolyta%20%28Civ6%29](Hippolyta) can activate her ability without the charge restriction! Note that special actions may be used only while the Hero has charges remaining; however, they will not disappear after expending their last one. A Hero unit disappears only when killed in battle, or when their Lifespan is exhausted.
Strategy.
This mode has two basic layers which affect gameplay.
The first is the access to superunits right from the start of the game - exceptionally strong which can almost singlehandedly defeat Barbarian raids, clear their outposts and even engage other civilizations! Considering how easy it is to get your first Hero, it isn't uncommon to have it within the first 30-40 turns. All you need is a Monument, a couple of turns, and luck to discover a Hero which fits your gameplay style sufficiently. Of course, if you decide to go after a civilization you should be aware of the risk of their having claimed a Hero as well - you will then have lost the extra military edge.
The second layer is the Heroes' special abilities. These vary wildly, with some abilities which are truly game changers. Among these are Maui's ability to create resources out of nothing, Anansi's ability to consume resources for huge amounts of and , and Hercules' ability to instantly finish s. Needless to say, if you have the instincts to use such abilities correctly you will gain a significant edge over your competition in the early and middle game. Note that many of these abilities lose their power in the late game - Maui, for example, will have a hard time finding unclaimed tiles on which he can activate his ability. So, it all comes to using Heroes the right way, at the right moment. Which means that, if you intend to use this mode, the very first thing you should do is get familiar with most Heroes' special abilities and try to devise strategies that include them.
The Heroic Relics can also be immensely useful, especially if you have few other sources of Great Works.
Bugs.
Heroes increase the Loyalty of foreign cities. In a realistic scenario, the presence of an enemy Hero should demoralize a foreign city, not bolster its loyalty.