# Hetairoi (Civ6)

The Hetairoi is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Heavy%20cavalry](heavy cavalry unit) of the [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedonian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) (when led by [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander)) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horseman).
Strategy.
Alexander brings another domination vessel to Macedon, arguably even more powerful than the [Hypaspist%20%28Civ6%29](Hypaspist), the Hetairoi. Unlike the Horseman it replaces, the Hetairoi is classified as a heavy cavalry unit, which means they can be upgraded into [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights). allowing them to stay relevant for much longer, and equipped with a line much more suited for conquest. Also, they start with a free , so you can choose either [Charge%20%28Civ6%29](Charge) (which increases damage against fortified defenders), or [Barding%20%28Civ6%29](Barding) (which increases defense against ranged attacks). Generally, since you will have a lot of Hetairoi for the purpose of domination, it is a good idea to mix and match the s, but it is worth noting that Marauding is a strong tier II that can increase damage output against defensible s, if those s have a garrison unit, and Marauding requires Charge. 
With the Hetairoi, Macedon is also incredible at grabbing s. Each kill performed by a Hetairoi results in 5 points, on top of the fact that Macedon already loves building [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) more than a normal Domination civilization, since they have a strong replacement for the [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks) that can be used for , the [Basilikoi%20Paides%20%28Civ6%29](Basilikoi Paides). Hetairoi also benefit twice as much from s compared to other units. Besides the normal 5 Combat Strength and 1 , a Hetairoi also receives 5 extra Combat Strength when attacking a unit adjacent to a Macedonian . This is the awkward part, since the bonus doesn't function in the way the in-game tooltip describes. If the Hetairoi and the share the same hex, this shouldn't be a problem, since the Hetairoi's attacks are melee. However, if the stands behind the Hetairoi, and the Hetairoi attacks a unit in the front, since that enemy unit is not flanked by the , the Hetairoi only receives 5 Combat Strength from being near the , but cannot activate its special bonus. Note that this special bonus of the Hetairoi can be activated by any , not necessarily a Classical one. Therefore, a Hetairoi can receive 5 Combat Strength when attacking a unit flanked by a Medieval , but, as expected, will not receive the normal 5 Combat Strength and 1 from standing within 2-tile of that Medieval .
Overall, the Hetairoi is an incredibly powerful unit, and they will form the heart of the Macedonian army. With a potential Combat Strength of 46, by far the highest in the Classical Era, 5 , a free starting with boosted experience gained from the Basilikoi Paides, this unit can be a nightmare to defend against. Also, in "", the Hetairoi uses , instead of like other heavy cavalry units, which is great since it won't compete against the contemporary Hypaspist in the same resource pool. 