# Highlander (Civ6)

The Highlander is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Recon](recon unit) of the [Scottish%20%28Civ6%29](Scottish) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Ranger%20%28Civ6%29](Ranger).
Strategy.
In addition to being stronger than the Ranger it replaces, the Highlander receives combat bonuses in rough [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain). Since it replaces a unit that does not seem to have a lot of use, the Highlander also has every problem that the Ranger has. (Read more [Ranger%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here).) If you want a regular, most representative feel of the civilization, this unit should serve only as 4 [Historic%20Moments%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) and nothing else. If you are looking for a new and more challenging gameplay experience, continue reading.
Although it is possible to use the Highlander in combat, it is very hard to do so effectively. Your goal is to gain the Tier III , [Ambush%20%28Civ6%29](Ambush), but since earlier recon units do not do a lot of combat because that is not their purpose, it is not possible to get a lot of pre-built [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scouts) to earn this and upgrade them later, even if you run [Survey%20%28Civ6%29](Survey). Here is a few tips to earn the infamously hard to achieve promotion so your Highlander can actually have a purpose instead of the mere 4 Era Score:
Much like the Ranger it replaces, the Highlander does not seem to come into play too often, as scouting should definitely be demoted close to the bottom of your priority list in the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) and it does not do a better job at scouting than your regular Scout, either. Since Highlanders are worse than regular military units at fighting and require a prohibitive amount of setup to succeed, they should never be the factor you rely on to carry you to victory unless you are looking for something very, very unusual. 
Unexpectedly, the Highlander exerts zone of control, despite being a unit with ranged attacks. This detail is not mentioned anywhere in the game, but is coded in the game files and still fully functional to date. Coupled with the fact that the Highlander likes to fight in Hills and Woods, enemies' may be hindered even more when approaching the Highlander, so it can be somewhat meaningful in a defensive war, especially if you have many Hills and Woods tiles in your territory. However, as analyzed with great details above that this unit and the Ranger it replaces have little impact on the battlefield, this feature, whether intended or not, is nothing more than an interesting piece of trivia without actual gameplay implications. 
Unlike "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", the site of the battle is actually the tile of the defender, not the attacker. Therefore, similar to other bonuses that grant extra Combat Strength when "fighting on" certain terrain, the Highlander will receive extra Combat Strength when it attacks a unit standing on Woods or Hills, regardless of where the Highlander stands. Also, the Highlander will receive extra Combat Strength on defense if it gets attacked while standing on Woods or Hills. This bonus does not stack with itself when the Highlander fights on a Wooded Hills. 