# Hippodrome (Civ6)

The Hippodrome is a unique of the [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantine) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex).
Buildings.
The following [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) can be constructed in a Hippodrome:
Strategy.
This is inarguably what makes Byzantium so fearsome on the battlefield, since it allows them to summon up a gigantic legion of heavy cavalry units in the blink of an eye, ready to sweep away anything that crosses their path. The biggest boon of the Hippodrome is its unique ability to instantly create a [Strategic%20resources%20%28Civ6%29](resource) free [Units%20%28Civ6%29](heavy cavalry) unit every time you complete this district and each building inside it. Along with the cheaper cost of the district, this allow Byzantium to amass large armies of [Units%20%28Civ6%29](heavy cavalry) units in a blink of an eye, tying in nicely with [Basil%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Basil II)'s leader ability. If properly utilized, this allows for Byzantium to shred through entire enemy civilizations with ease. Note that these resource-free units received from the Hippodrome will continue to be resource-free when upgraded. A powerful strategy with this district is to build a Hippodrome in every single city of yours, but switch to something else when you are 1 or 2 turns away, until the [Tagma%20%28Civ6%29](Tagma) that is unlocked with [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right). By doing so, you will instantly create an army of Tagmata, so massive that they are ready to decimate anyone in your way with little to no resistance. Of course, the amount of provided by the Hippodrome is triple that of a regular Entertainment Complex, which will also keep your ever-growing empire happy and productive as you continue to add more and more cities to your civilization. Byzantium is probably the only civilization that should build Entertainment Complexes in every city, since the Hippodrome is such a powerful replacement for an otherwise underutilized . This perfectly pairs with a [Domination%20Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Domination) centered strategy, allowing for constant unit production and high to prevent any cities from rebelling.
Just for comparison, a Tagma costs 180 (220 in "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)"), while a Hippodrome has a base cost of 27 , which will scale up to around 100 in Medieval, even cheaper if you remember to put them down immediately in all cities you have when you unlock the district to lock in the cost. Even the Arena only costs 150 , which is still a good deal if you can get a Tagma out of it. Since the cost of the Hippodrome scales upward with civic and technology progression, in order to minimize its cost when the Tagma is unlocked, make sure to beeline straight for [Games%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Games and Recreation) (requires 4 civics before it, 7 civics if you detour for [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy) first), and afterward straight for [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right) without taking any more detours. Also, you want your output to be always ahead of your output, or at least always have more [Civics%20%28Civ6%29](civics) unlocked than [Technologies%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) unlocked, which can be achieved by strategically researching without completing right away, so not building [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) is actually recommended, since you do not need right now, and will roll in naturally once the conquest starts. In order to actualize your timing push with your Tagmata, save at least one district slot in every city before the Hippodrome is unlocked, and immediately put them down in all cities to lock down the cheap cost as soon as possible, but wait until the Tagma is unlocked to finish construction. (If you want to know the reason why you should keep your low or put down Hippodromes immediately, read [District%20%28Civ6%29%23District%20discount%20mechanics](here)).