# Hollywood (CTP2)

Hollywood is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It is meant for the [American%20%28CTP2%29](Americans) and costs 8600 production points to build.
Gameplay.
The center of entertainment in the , Hollywood revolutionized the motion picture industry, taking it from a fringe venue to the single most prevalent form of entertainment in the world. Each foreign city with a or will give the host empire a bonus.
Great Library entry.
When Los Angeles was a small city in the new state of California, a prohibitionist from Kansas named Horace Wilcox created Hollywood as a real-estate subdivision in 1887. He originally envisioned it as a community based on his rather strict religious principles. Over the next century, however, it would become an internationally recognized symbol of the film and television industry itself, representing, ironically, some of the worst excesses of modern American culture.
Although the earliest movie production studios existed in New York and Chicago, a determined group of filmmakers transferred their operations to Southern California in the early 1900s, laying the foundation for the development of an entertainment industry of mammoth proportions and success. Hollywood provided ample sunshine, a mild climate, access to varied terrain and a large labor market. In 1908, one of the first storytelling movies, The Count of Monte Cristo, was completed in Hollywood after filming began in Chicago. The first Hollywood studio was founded on Sunset Boulevard in 1911, and soon 20 companies began film production in and around Hollywood. By 1915, it became the center of the United States motion picture industry as more filmmakers relocated from the East Coast. Such men as D.W. Griffith, Samuel Goldwyn, Cecil B. de Mille, William Fox Adolph Zukor, Darryl F. Zanuck, Harry Cohn and Louis B. Mayer presided over the great film studios - 20th Century Fox, Metro-Goldywn-Mayer, Paramount Pictures, Columbia, Warner Brothers and others. Despite robust and thriving film communities all of the world, Hollywood continued to dominate global entertainment well into the 21st century.