# Holy Site (Civ6)

The Holy Site is a specialty in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", dedicated to religious pursuits. It requires [Astrology%20%28Civ6%29](Astrology).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Holy Site:
Strategy.
The Holy Site is one of the first s available, along with the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus). It is indispensable if you intend to found a Religion! The Holy Site is the only early game source of points (along with the [Revelation%20%28Civ6%29](Revelation) Policy), which you need to earn a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet). Next, a Religion can only be Founded in a Holy Site! The alternative way to Found a Religion - building the [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge Wonder) - may not be viable in most cases, as it requires access to [Stone%20%28Civ6%29](Stone) and racing against other players to complete it.In addition Stonehenge still requires you to build Holy Sites to enable the other worship buildings and to purchase religious units therefore it is generally regarded as a very poor wonder best left for the AI.
But the Holy Site remains important throughout the game. First, it is a major source of ; second, it is the place where you built the Special Religious buildings from Worship Beliefs; third, it is the place where you can Purchase your Religious Units. And it also provides bonuses during Theological combat for these units. And it also Heals them! All of this means that any player who considers using Religion in the game should build Holy Site Districts. In later eras, your will be important for purchasing [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists) and [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands), both important for [Cultural%20Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Cultural Victory).
The best place for this District's Faith output depends on your proximity to [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Wonders) and what [Pantheons%20%28Civ6%29](Pantheon) you found, particularly the [Dance%20of%20the%20Aurora%20%28Civ6%29](Dance of the Aurora), [Desert%20Folklore%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Folklore), or [Sacred%20Path%20%28Civ6%29](Sacred Path). While it can be easy to sacrifice a single tile of a Natural Wonder for a Holy Site, proper placement with one of the Pantheons can net 6 ! The next best place is between Mountains, or in the middle of Woods. In the late game you even have the option to Plant Woods with your [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to provide additional bonuses to your Holy Sites. If you intend to use this, however, remember to leave some free space for the Woods.
Other Pantheons modify your Holy Site for other uses aside from faith generation. [Divine%20Spark%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Spark) will aide in the race for a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet). [God%20of%20Healing%20%28Civ6%29](God of Healing) allows for your units to heal +30 when on or next to a Holy Site. And with [River%20Goddess%20%28Civ6%29](River Goddess), Holy Sites next to a river provide +2 and +2 .
Remember, only one worship building can be built in one particular Holy Site, and you cannot change your choice once it is built even if there is a religious change of hands in the city afterwards, so make wise choices.
In "Gathering Storm", each [Pamukkale%20%28Civ6%29](Pamukkale) tile provides an extra 1 to nearby Holy Sites, on top of its regular major adjacency bonus for being a Natural Wonder. Therefore, a Pamukkale tile provides a total of 3 to Holy Sites.