# Hoplite (Civ6)

The Hoplite is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Anti-cavalry](anti-cavalry unit) of the [Greek%20%28Civ6%29](Greek) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman).
Strategy.
Through numerous buffs, both directly and indirectly, Hoplites went from being one of the worst unique units in the game to one of the best early game units. Its high Combat Strength, cheap cost and lack of a strategic resource requirement means a rush with Hoplites can be deadly.
First of all, it gains 10 Combat Strength if it is next to another Hoplite, which is a strong and easy-to-satisfy bonus. This bonus will put Hoplites at 38 Combat Strength, only 2 Combat Strength lower than a [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman) (considering that Swordsmen gain 5 Combat Strength when fighting anti-cavalry units). However, the fact that each Swordsman costs 20 with almost 1.5 times the cost of a Hoplite means an army of Hoplites can always beat out Swordsmen just because of sheer number and the speed at which you can train these units. 
The minor buff to Hoplite's base Combat Strength (from 25 to 28), together with buffs towards anti-cavalry units, and the long list of nerfs to Swordsman and melee units in general mean now Hoplites can stand above pretty much any early game unit. Do take caution if your neighbors are either [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya), [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam), or [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gaul), however: Maya has the [Hul%27che%20%28Civ6%29](Hul'che) whose Ranged Strength almost rivals a [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman), Vietnam is a highly defensive civilization with huge Combat Strength and bonuses when you fight in their territory, and Gaul can almost instantly unlock [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) at the same time Hoplites are available. If you are taking on these civilizations, train more Hoplites than normal, bolster their strength further with [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy) (which can raise the maximum Combat Strength of a Hoplite to 42, and if you play as Gorgo and slot in 4 Military cards, this Combat Strength can reach 46). Now that's power.