# Housing (Civ6)

 Housing is a new concept in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", which acts as a slowing factor and eventually a hard limit on Population growth in each [City%20%28Civ6%29](city). It is meant to emulate habitation and sanitation factors in cities, and the limits that overcrowding imposes on growth. Fortunately, there are many different ways that Housing can increase.
Mechanics.
 Housing acts alongside the traditional growth factor in the following way:
As shown in the table above, Housing acts as an additional constraint on Population growth beyond supply. In practice, this means that a city will need Housing to grow larger, even if it has more than enough . Conversely, if a city has too little , no amount of spare Housing will help it grow.
Initially the amount of Housing available is strongly dependent on fresh water access (quite correct historically). As the city develops, however, its Housing becomes mostly dependent on the existence of [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements), [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings), and [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts) (that is, facilities inside the city which have no relation to nearby [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain)). Later still, [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics) and [Government%20%28Civ6%29](governments) will also add Housing.
Note that Housing is a fluid trait, especially when provided by "soft" sources such as [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards). However, losing Housing (e.g., because you stopped using a certain policy) will not cause a loss of Population; instead it will merely slow down Population growth, or stop it altogether. In that manner, Housing is very different from : when you are losing in the city you will also eventually start losing Population.
For details on how to get more Housing, see the section below. Also note that the "Housing" section of the City Details screen shows a detailed breakdown of all sources currently providing Housing for the city.
Sources.
The most basic Housing conditions are related to a water source, and this depends on where your city (that is, the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center)) is placed. Fresh water ([River%20%28Civ6%29](River), [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake), [Oasis%20%28Civ6%29](Oasis)) provides 5 Housing. [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) provides 3 Housing if you don't have fresh water. Every other placement gives only 2 Housing, meaning that your Population growth will be slowed by 50% from the very beginning until/unless you increase Housing (as per [%23Mechanics](the table above)).
This is why water supply plays such a prominent role in the Settler lens - look for the dark green [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) to settle in the best possible locations.
Cities owned by the [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya) start with 2 Housing whether or not they have a water source. Being the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of [Mohenjo-Daro%20%28Civ6%29](Mohenjo-Daro) makes all your cities start with 5 Housing from water sources (except when playing as the Maya).
Starting era.
Starting the game in a later [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) gives all cities extra Housing.
Buildings and districts.
Many buildings grant Housing. After researching [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery), every city is able to build a [Granary%20%28Civ6%29](Granary), which adds 2 Housing, and later they can build [Sewers%20%28Civ6%29](Sewers), which also adds 2 Housing. Some buildings in s add 1 Housing, such as the [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks) in the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment), the [University%20%28Civ6%29](University) in the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus), and the [Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Lighthouse) in the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor). The [Palace%20%28Civ6%29](Palace) in your city also adds 1 Housing. Lighthouses also provide an additional 2 Housing if the city is adjacent a Coast or Lake.
Some [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) buildings are capable of adding Housing. In [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and ', the [Pagoda%20%28Civ6%29](Pagoda) and each [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine) or [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple) in a city with the [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29%23Follower](Religious Community) follower belief adds +1 Housing; in ', the [Gurdwara%20%28Civ6%29](Gurdwara) adds +1 Housing and each Shrine or Temple in a city with the Feed the World follower belief adds +2 Housing.
[Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts) are the earliest engineering means of increasing Housing by providing additional access to water. They will add 2 Housing for cities that already have fresh water; otherwise they will set the water Housing value to 6. Note that Aqueducts must be built adjacent to both your City Center and either a [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain) or a source of fresh water, so plan accordingly.
One can see from this table that 1) while not mandatory for placement, fresh water is a huge boost to early city growth; 2) for fresh water placements, an Aqueduct can still help, but not until later, allowing early concentration on other projects; and 3) for non-fresh water placements, taking the time to build an Aqueduct is a strong equalizer.
The [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) district is exclusively dedicated to providing Housing through additional habitation space based on the tile's [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) (with the bonus ranging from +2 for Disgusting Appeal to +6 for Breathtaking Appeal).
The [Roman%20%28Civ6%29](Roman) and [Zulu%20%28Civ6%29](Zulu) unique districts - the [Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Bath) and the [Ikanda%20%28Civ6%29](Ikanda) - provide +2 and +1 Housing bonuses (respectively) above and beyond the districts they replace.
In "Gathering Storm", the [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam) provides +3 Housing by improving the sanitation from nearby rivers, and [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang's) [Water%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Water Works) title causes Aqueducts and Neighborhoods in the city in which she is established to provide an additional +2 Housing.
The [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserve) also provides up to +3 Housing (+1 base, +2 for Charming Appeal, +3 for Breathtaking Appeal). Unlike the Aqueduct, Dam, and Neighborhood, however, it is a specialty district.
To maximize Housing, the best possible location for a city is on a [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) tile with fresh water, a Harbor and a Lighthouse, an Aqueduct, and a Dam (on [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains)). This amounts to 13 Housing (base 5 from fresh water, +3 from the Lighthouse, +2 from the Aqueduct, +3 from the Dam).
Improvements.
Each [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farm), [Pasture%20%28Civ6%29](Pasture), [Plantation%20%28Civ6%29](Plantation), [Camp%20%28Civ6%29](Camp), or [Fishing%20Boats%20%28Civ6%29](Fishing Boats) supports a small amount of Population, +0.5 Housing for every such [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvements) within 3 tiles of the City Center. Supporting rural Population in this fashion will allow for slightly larger Populations prior to the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era), when the [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) district becomes available. Note that unlike district adjacency which requires pairs of matching improvements for each minor [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) (2 Mines/Lumber Mills/Woods/Rainforests), Housing improvements that provide +0.5 Housing are simply additive (e.g., a city with 1 Farm, 1 Pasture, 1 Plantation, and 1 Fishery will receive a total of +2 Housing).
In "Gathering Storm", the futuristic [Seastead%20%28Civ6%29](Seastead) provides +2 Housing and can be constructed in any water tile (except [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs)), providing a late-game means of increasing Housing with floating homes.
Civilization and leader abilities.
Some [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization and leader abilities) grant additional Housing:
There are some [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) whose unique tile improvements provide extra Housing apart from standard improvements. Below is the list of unique tile improvements that provide Housing:
Policies.
Another major source of Housing is [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards). The following policy cards, when slotted, will increase Housing:
Wonders.
Some [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) also supply bonuses in Housing. Below is the list of wonders that provide Housing:
Other.
There are also other sources of Housing, which are generally non-permanent. They are related to specific forms of government, or to its agents (the [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors)), or the Suzerainty of Mohenjo-Daro. Since these may be changed or relocated at any time, you should aim to utilize them strategically in periods of the game for general growth, or in specific cities to allow a temporary growth spurt.
If Liang has the [Aquaculture%20%28Civ6%29](Aquaculture) title and is established in a city, one can also improve Coast or Lake tiles in it with [Fishery%20%28Civ6%29](Fisheries) (same +0.5 Housing bonus as the Fishing Boats).
There are some improvements unique to a specific [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) that players can build once [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of that city-state. Below is the list of city-state specific improvements that provide Housing: