# Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque (Civ6)

Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque are a [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29%23Heroes](Hero) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are exclusive to the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) [Game%20Mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack).
Strategy.
Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque are a strange duo melee unit with the passive ability to resurrect fallen enemy land units in combat and bring them immediately under your control, especially the unique units of another civilization! This is very useful, but niche, in a situation where an opposing civilization that is in battle with you has a much larger army than yours. Every unit you kill with Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque becomes much-needed military pressure against your enemy the moment their passive ability kicks in. Because of this, they can easily turn the tide of battle from a lose-lose situation to one in which your opponent is seriously outnumbered!
Despite their game-changing passive ability, Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque can only use it while battling other opposing land units. Additionally, they boast a Combat Strength that is only slightly better than most other unique melee units of their respective eras. Because of this, both their HP and lifespans are determining factors of whether they can be effective at reanimating hordes of enemy land units or not. They can even become easy pickings by other civilizations that execute a well-planned ambush against the duo. Therefore, it is advised to fight sparingly with Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque and pull them back when they are low on health and they have a good chunk of lifespan remaining to recoup so as to maximize their ability usage.
Finally, if Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque is used to kill Barbarian land units, they will initially resurrect and regain movement under your control, but they will be unable to regain HP by resting, akin to hiring temporary mercenaries.
Like all Hero units, Hunahpu &amp; Xbalanque's Strength increases with the progression of the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), as shown in the table below.