# Hungarian (Civ6)

The Hungarian people represent a [Civilization%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". They are led by [Matthias%20Corvinus%20%28Civ6%29](Matthias Corvinus), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark green and orange.
The Hungarians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Pearl of the Danube, which provides a 50% bonus when constructing and [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) across a [River%20%28Civ6%29](River) from a [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Husz%C3%A1r%20%28Civ6%29](Huszár) (which replaces the [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry)), and their unique [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) is the [Thermal%20Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Thermal Bath) (which replaces the [Zoo%20%28Civ6%29](Zoo)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 3 towards [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers), tier 5 towards [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures)"
Hungary is a powerful domination civilization at all points in the game, but is very reliant on [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). Their ability to levy troops and continue [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](suzerainty) with city-states for basically free is incredibly powerful and is Hungary's primary strength, capable of making Hungary one of the most powerful civilizations in the game without even needing the Pearl of the Danube.
Pearl of the Danube.
When thinking of Hungary as a civilization, players are less likely to think of this ability, but it does not mean this is weak. 50% for not only districts but also its buildings is absolutely huge, making Hungarians not only conquerors but also builders. In the early game, it may be wise to move your initial [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settler) to a position in which Pearl of the Danube can be more effectively used. Bends in rivers can allow Hungary to use Pearl of the Danube to boost the construction on more than one [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile), and in best case scenarios, up to five tiles.
It is important to consider on a case-by-case basis which Districts you want to focus on first, but there are a few standouts which are usually superior. For example, this bonus can offer a great boon to the number of [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) you can get going in a short time, which in concert with Hungary's start bias towards [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures) can give Hungary a significant early lead. You can play off of this in many different ways, but one of the best is to get a quick start on [Castles%20%28Civ6%29](Castles) to unlock the Black Army. Naturally, you will next need to actually build the Black Army (unless you trained some [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) beforehand, and your [Gold%20%28Civ6%29](Gold)is better spent on levying city-state units), so construct some [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) to quickly pump out this unit. The final district that should be high on your list of priorities is the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub), as Hungary often finds itself in need of Gold to levy and upgrade city-state units even with their discounts to both. All other districts can be safely disregarded unless you've got time and precious to spare or you're looking for an unorthodox victory path such as Cultural or Religious.
Overall, this is certainly a supplementary bonus rather than a central one, but the potential gains are worth a Hungary player's attention. Take your time when settling cities, and your reward will be prosperous and productive cities come later eras.
Raven King.
Matthias Corvinus' leader ability is clearly the signature bonus of Hungary, as it really defines their playstyle and [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Victory) path.
Your first fifty turns should be used for extensive scouting and early conquest of a neighbor. Scouting will reveal city-states, and taking [Diplomatic%20League%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic League) as a policy card can help gain suzerainty of nearby city-states quickly. For a Tier 1 [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government), choose [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy), as this will aid your early conquests. For your Tier 2 government, Hungary may be the only civilization in the game that is better off with [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy) than [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic) or [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy), as the extra influence points from Monarchy will help them gain even more city-states. Theocracy is the second possibility, although this is only recommended if you have founded a successful religion. For your Tier 3 government, Hungary should obviously choose [Fascism%20%28Civ6%29](Fascism).
There are several techs that Hungary should research as soon as possible. First is [Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ6%29](Animal Husbandry), as this will reveal , necessary for Matthias Corvinus' [Black%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Black Army). Finding a good location for a second city with , if your does not have any, is imperative. Second is [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working). This will provide upgrades for not just your [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors) to [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen), but also any city-states you control. Remember that you still need a little bit of to upgrade them, but you do not need to bring these units to your territory for the upgrade. With Swordsmen and the assistance of 1-3 city-states, you should easily be able to roll over any nearby neighbors and conquer them. You can also be extraordinarily aggressive with these Swordsmen, as they are not yours. Third is [Currency%20%28Civ6%29](Currency). Hungary does not have any diplomatic bonuses other than continually levying troops, so a strong income is necessary. Using Pearl of the Danube to build your first powerful [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) will be a great power spike for Hungary.
Maintaining your output and getting those Strategic Resources up and running should be of utmost importance. Even with Matthias Corvinus' 75% upgrade cost reduction, upgrading your entire levied military can be quite expensive in a long run. Policy cards that reduce the cost of upgrading units even further definitely come in handy.
Since the 75% discount to Strategic Resources when upgrading units and the associated rounding in the calculation means you actually do not need any resource to upgrade units into a unit that requires per turn resource maintenance (the most important upgrade when it comes to levied units is from [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman) into [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry)). However, if you do not have the required resource to maintain these units, they will have a penalty to their Combat Strength. For instance, if you have no in reserve and gaining 0 per turn, meanwhile having 5 Infantry units and 5 Artillery units, which are all using , each of them will receive a penalty of 5+5=10 Combat Strength. Overall, even if you do not have the Strategic Resource required to maintain your army, as long as you keep the number of units that require Strategic Resources low, you will gain more Combat Strength from upgrading than the penalty. When late game comes, considering you cannot form Corps and Armies from levied units, it is important you have an army of your own to deal with enemy Corps and Armies.
The weakest [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) for Hungary is the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), especially before they have the techs above and before they have any city-states under their control. Afterwards, their gameplay is very simple. They do not need strong , , or . They need only for their closest city-states to randomly produce units (which they will be doing anyway) to drown their neighbors in blood. Keep in mind that each further unit upgrade is another power spike for Hungarian and Hungarian levied units, so any tech that unlocks an upgraded unit should be your scientific priority. Beelining expensive techs such as [Military%20Science%20%28Civ6%29](Military Science) could be useful. generation is only important if you have a religion, and if you choose Defender of the Faith over Crusade, a great deal of [Inquisitor%20%28Civ6%29](Inquisitors) will keep your combat edge up for a long time. Once your closest neighbors have been conquered (1-3 civs), you should have no trouble keeping your advantage for the rest of the game. Even your city-state allies will not be as necessary to maintain relations with; the sheer size of your empire will grant you endless units and districts, making up for the lack of bonus // generation in any way. To protect the sheer size of this empire, of course, use the Thermal Baths, as well as trying to befriend city-states and recruit the [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchants) that provide ([Buenos%20Aires%20%28Civ6%29](Buenos Aires), [Zanzibar%20%28Civ6%29](Zanzibar), [John%20Spilsbury%20%28Civ6%29](John Spilsbury), [Helena%20Rubinstein%20%28Civ6%29](Helena Rubinstein), [Est%C3%A9e%20Lauder%20%28Civ6%29](Estée Lauder), and [Levi%20Strauss%20%28Civ6%29](Levi Strauss)). Hungary may also try to build a few [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders), namely the [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum), [Alhambra%20%28Civ6%29](Alhambra), and [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army) for conquest and amenity upkeep, and the [Orsz%C3%A1gh%C3%A1z%20%28Civ6%29](Országház), [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani), and [Apadana%20%28Civ6%29](Apadana) for s and city-states relations. Another great addition to your empire would be the [Foreign%20Ministry%20%28Civ6%29](Foreign Ministry) building that is unlocked for your [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) when you adopt a tier 2 government in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). This will cut the cost of levying troops from city states by half, saving you a lot of money initially and in the long run.
"Synergy between Amani and Matthias Corvinus".
There is a trick that you can perform with [Amani%20%28Diplomat%29%20%28Civ6%29](Amani), as long as she has the final [Puppeteer%20%28Civ6%29](Puppeteer) title. Below are the steps of this trick:
An important thing to remember is that from step 3 to step 6, you need to perform them within the same turn. This effectively allows Matthias to buy s with , while no one else can. The Foreign Ministry, therefore, is important to make levying troops a lot cheaper. Overtime, you can move Amani around to buy s at every City-state, as long as you have enough for it. Since the cost of levying units from a City-state is equal to the total cost of the army (read more [City-state%20%28Civ6%29%23City-state%20Benefits](here)), this strategy works much better with City-states that have a small army.
This trick may be considered an unfair exploit to other players, so in a multiplayer game, remember to be considerate and respectful to the rules of the group and discuss this beforehand.
Huszár.
Between the two unique units of Hungary when led by [Matthias%20Corvinus%20%28Civ6%29](Matthias Corvinus), the Huszár is harder to utilize effectively, since you cannot control if your opponents will like you enough to form [Alliance](Alliance)s with you, especially in single player games when your conquests can start as early as the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) right after [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen) are unlocked. Its only major upside, despite having very limited synergy with Hungary as a domination powerhouse, is that it has 3 extra Combat Strength compared to a standard [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry) at a negligible cost increase. If you are able to get someone to declare friendship with you before your warmongering starts and appease them enough to establish an alliance with you when the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) comes, the Huszár's bonus might be somewhat more noticeable; otherwise, this unit is rather unremarkable, with its bonus too rarely applicable to be significant.
Black Army.
As a domination powerhouse with 2 unique units, Hungary under Matthias Corvinus has much stronger synergy with the Black Army than its upgrade, the [Husz%C3%A1r%20%28Civ6%29](Huszár), despite its bonus being less wieldy than its upgrade. Hungary is a unique domination civilization since they are reliant on levying [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states') troops to be effective, the Black Army makes the Hungarian edge in [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) combat even sharper by playing right to its strength: starting with higher Combat Strength than a standard Courser and getting even stronger with every adjacent levied unit. Remember that units levied by Hungary receive an extra 2 , so your mercenary army will have no problem of keeping up with the Black Army to sustain this bonus. You can use the Black Army to do all the work thanks to their outstanding strength, or just use the levied army to protect the number of your own units and use the Black Army to pillage or claim strategic hexes in the back.
Thermal Bath.
The Thermal Bath is an interesting replacement for the standard [Zoo%20%28Civ6%29](Zoo), a rather underutilized building in an underwhelming and often neglected district. This building encourages the Hungarians to look for and settle near [Volcanoes%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanoes) where [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures) are available (likely a simple task thanks to their sizable start bias towards this terrain feature). Under various conditions, the Thermal Bath supplies as many as or even twice as many as the [Stadium%20%28Civ6%29](Stadium) at only three quarters of the production cost, not to mention extra regional bonus and early , thus if you manage to settle near a Geothermal Fissure, you can easily make all of your cities within 6 tiles ecstatic without wasting 480 more on building a [Stadium%20%28Civ6%29](Stadium) for more .
Unlike the normal Zoo, the Thermal Bath does not grant +1 to [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marsh) and [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest) tiles in the city.
Victory Types.
It goes without saying that Hungary was made for conquest as they can quickly muster a powerful, up-to-date army without having to worry about accumulating [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](strategic resources). Raven King also helps Hungary generate s independently from the Civic tree, which allows them to compete for City-states and attempt a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory), especially if they can build the [Orsz%C3%A1gh%C3%A1z%20%28Civ6%29](Országház).
However, as previously mentioned, Pearl of the Danube is an underrated ability, and given the right situation, Hungarian riverside settlements can quickly grow to help them overtake the enemies on any victory path they deem suitable.
Counter Strategy.
The weak point of Hungary is the reliance on City-state relations to be effective, in both Diplomacy and Domination. If you are the next door neighbor of Hungary, you are most likely the first victim of their conquest, because even when Hungary does not aim for a Domination Victory, conquering for extra cities is never completely off their agenda. If that is the case, you need to place extra focus on exploration to scout out City-state and establish your diplomatic foothold with them. Once you let Hungary become the Suzerain, it is very hard to flip the City-state back since they can boost their power by levying troops. If the City-state quest is too hard to complete for you to earn with them, the safest way is to conquer them outright before Hungary amasses enough for levying and upgrade troops to start their Domination game. Hungary is also very weak in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), before they have all the techs they need to be successful. The [Aztec%20%28Civ6%29](Aztecs), [Sumerian%20%28Civ6%29](Sumeria), and [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) are Hungary's worst enemies, as all of them have a powerful Ancient era Unique Unit, and should be able to conquer Hungary outright.