# Hunnic (Civ5)

The Hunnic people (or Huns) represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
The Huns are obviously the most offensive civilization in the game, always looking for a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory) rather than other [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) conditions. They are the only civilization which has a siege weapon in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Era), and are thus able to combine two siege weapons in a single [Era%20%28Civ5%29](era) ([Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ5%29](Battering Ram) and [Catapult%20%28Civ5%29](Catapult)), allowing them to capture [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) early and with ridiculous ease. Add to that the powerful [Horse%20Archer%20%28Civ5%29](Horse Archer), also available in the Ancient Era, and you get an offensive juggernaut. Start your offensive early on and few will be able to stop you.
What appears to be less obvious is that the Huns have a [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) that make them not only an excellent offensive civilization, but also a decent defensive civilization. "Scourge of God" could just as accurately be called "Scorched Earth," because one of the characteristics of the ability allows you to raze cities twice as fast. This ability is useful for thwarting any attempt by the enemy to retake captured [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory): after capturing an enemy city, sell all the [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) in it, then set it ablaze. If your enemy manages to reclaim the city before it is destroyed, it will be depopulated and undeveloped, and they will have to spend time and to rebuild it.
Another useful feature is the extra for every [Pasture%20%28Civ5%29](Pasture) you control, helping you increase in order to speed creation of military [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units). With the [Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ5%29](Animal Husbandry) [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology) already researched, you will have the chance to produce mounted units earlier (and faster) than the other civs, provided you have access to a source of .
Cities.
The names of all Hunnic cities founded after their are randomly taken from the bottom of other in-game civilizations' city lists. The appearance of the Huns can give a strong clue as to which other civilizations are in a game.
If [Venetian%20%28Civ5%29](Venice) is the only other civilization in a game or all possible city names have been used, Hunnic cities will take their names from the city lists of civilizations that are not in the current game.