# Hwacha (Civ6)

The Hwacha is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged unit) of the [Korean%20%28Civ6%29](Korean) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannon) and is unlocked with [Gunpowder%20%28Civ6%29](Gunpowder).
Strategy.
The Hwacha is an average unique unit, neither weak and forgettable nor outstanding enough to build entire strategies around. It has the same Ranged Strength as and lower Combat Strength, , and maintenance costs than the Field Cannon, and is available an entire [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) earlier. It also, like a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege unit), cannot attack after moving unless its maximum is at least 1 above normal. (For more details on how the move-and-shoot rule works, head [Movement%20%28Civ6%29%23Siege%20units%20and%20the%20move-and-shoot%20rule](here).) Placing it near a [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General) is the easiest way to satisfy this condition, but the Koreans' lack of incentives to build [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) make it hard for them to earn points, so they will most likely be limited to using the Hwacha as a defensive unit. The [Logistics%20%28Civ6%29](Logistics) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) is recommended for Korean players who want to use this unit more effectively, since it allows Hwachas to be on the offense against civilizations whose [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders) adjoin Korea's and more mobile on defense.
Moreover, the earlier availability of the Hwacha can work to Korea's advantage. The Koreans' bonuses to output allow for unparalleled technological advancement, so if they have strong potential in their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and/or a lot of extra , they can potentially surprise their neighbors with a legion of Hwachas at their doorstep. Both players who play as and against Korea tend to overlook how early the Hwacha can be unlocked, so a surprise war with this unit can yield a good result.