# Hydroelectric Dam (Civ6)

The Hydroelectric Dam is an advanced [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) that supplies renewable energy in "". It is built in the [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dam) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district).
Strategy.
The Hydroelectric Dam is the earliest available alternative to fossil fuel plants - a renewable source which is incidentally also the densest of the lot, providing 6 to its [City%20%28Civ6%29](city). Unfortunately, its requirements limit its usefulness. Cities on [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers) become a bit less common in "Gathering Storm" due to the danger of [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](flooding), but on top of that, not every city on a river gets to construct a Dam - your ability to do so will depend on whether there are [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) as well as whether there is already another Dam on the same river. Ultimately, your generation will be mostly via other sources. 
If you are lacking in and , a Hydroelectric Dam can be a worthwhile investment to complement your Power Plants. This is doubly true for the latter, since is required for constructing many [Military%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](military units) as well and you should avoid using much of it. However, if you have tons of one of those two [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) stockpiled, then whether or not to build one becomes more situational: if most of your cities are far from the [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast), for example, and you estimate [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) flooding from [Climate%20%28Civ6%29](climate change) will not affect you too much, then its moderately high cost might be better put elsewhere.
[Governor%20%28Civ6%29](City Governor) [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna's) [Renewable%20Subsidizer%20%28Civ6%29](Renewable Subsidizer) title can boost the yield from this building by +2 and +2 .
Like all other buildings, the Hydroelectric Dam is city-unique, even if a city has multiple Dam districts.