# Hypaspist (Civ6)

The Hypaspist is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) of the [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedonian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman).
In the "" expansion, the Hypaspist requires 5 to train.
Strategy.
Although the Hypaspist wields a spear, it's not an anti-cavalry unit: it's a melee unit that functions best when adjacent to other friendly units or attacking a district. The Hypaspist often has to live in the shadow of the [Hetairoi%20%28Civ6%29](Hetairoi), considering how powerful the other unit is, but it is still an above average unit. It sports 38 Combat Strength, slightly higher than the standard Swordsman, with only a marginal cost increase (10 ). The best part about the Hypaspist is that it only requires 5 to be trained, a quarter that of a Swordsman, meaning Macedon can still quickly churn out quite a few Hypaspists when only having one source. With 38 base Combat Strength, 4 Combat Strength from Oligarchy, 5 Combat Strength from a (which Macedon is overwhelmingly likely to have thanks to all the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments), [Basilikoi%20Paides%20%28Civ6%29](Basilikoi Paides), and Hetairoi), and 5 Combat Strength when fighting a , you are looking at a Swordsman that can fight defensible s at 52 Combat Strength. A mixed force of Hypaspists and Hetairoi will prove very difficult for other civilizations to fight off in the early stages of the game, as they are well-equipped to fight against both units and s alike. 
The Hypaspist's increased support bonus means they benefit more from support, but they are not better at providing such bonuses for other units. For example, a Hypaspist and a friendly [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior) both flank an enemy unit to form a triangle; when attacked, the Hypaspist will receive a +3 Combat Strength support bonus from the Warrior but the Warrior will still receive only a +2 Combat Strength support bonus from the Hypaspist.
With the introduction of the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) in the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update), the prowess of the [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman) and its replacements gets significantly reduced. Although the Hypaspist is no exception, its power level does not get hit as hard as the [Toa%20%28Civ6%29](Toa)'s. You can still have a meaningful domination rush with this unit in combination with the Hetairoi, thanks to its 75% requirement discount, allowing you to churn out Hypaspists a lot faster than your opponents can build Men-At-Arms. Remember that Combat Strength of defenses depends on the highest Combat Strength of a unit you have built, so the moment the first enemy Man-At-Arms is built, the Hypaspist will be worse at besieging s; however, thanks to the ability to earn s quickly, the innate extra Combat Strength compared to the Swordsman, the potential number advantage coupled with extra support bonus, the Hypaspist won't struggle too much against Men-At-Arms.