# ICBM (Civ4)

An ICBM (inter-continental ballistic missile) has an unlimited range, and like the [Tactical%20Nuke%20%28Civ4%29](Tactical Nuke), has a devastating effect. They cannot be moved from the [City%20%28Civ4%29](city) that builds them but can strike any target on the [Map%20%28Civ4%29](map). [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ4%29](Nuclear weapons), if used, have a tremendous negative effect upon world opinion.
Strategy.
The ICBM is the most powerful [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ4](unit) in the "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" franchise. It has the ability to strike anywhere on the map, causing significant damage. When used over a city, it has a damage range of 12 squares. Inside the city, populations are reduced drastically and huge damage can be done to city improvements such as [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ4](wonders) or other [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20Civ4](buildings). Within 12 squares, the city is affected with pollution and radioactive waste. All the green pastures are destroyed, converting the area into desert. Another hit with an ICBM on the same city can send the city back to the prehistoric age, leaving it with a population count of 5 or less.
Other [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20Civ4](civilizations) can use the ICBM against you and the amount of damage will be the same. However, the ICBM can be countered with the [SDI%20%28Civ4%29](SDI). This gives you a 75% interception rate, destroying enemy ICBMs before they even reach your cities.
The use of the ICBM is likely to cause all the other civilizations to declare war on you and eventually use multiple ICBMs on you. However, if you managed to build the SDI defense system, you will be well-protected against missile attacks.
During war preparations, it is recommended for the player to build a large number of ICBMs. In case of war, you can direct a massive nuclear strike against any civilization, leaving their territory basically defenseless. Afterward, a few [Mechanized%20Infantry%20%28Civ4%29](Mechanized Infantry) or [Marine%20%28Civ4%29](Marine) units will be good enough to seize control.