# Ice Hockey Rink (Civ6)

The Ice Hockey Rink is a unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) of the [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canadian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It must be built on [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra), [Tundra%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra Hills), [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow), or [Snow%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Snow Hills) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles).
Strategy.
As of the final patch of the game, the Ice Hockey Rink, once a nigh-useless unique improvement, becomes integral to Canada's cultural prowess and ability to thrive in Tundra. Tundra is nearly useless to civilizations other than Canada (and [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia)), offering a pathetic 1 . The resources that can spawn on Tundra can all be found on other, more productive, warmer tiles as well. 
As a general rule, it's often not considered worth it to work tiles with high non-/non- yields (like an Ice Hockey Rink) in a newly settled city, as you inhibit the city's development. However, [Wilfrid%20Laurier%20%28Civ6%29](Wilfrid Laurier)'s leader bonus makes settling Tundra much more worth it and allows newly settled cities to work their Ice Hockey Rink much quicker: 
Universally, Farms, Mines, and Camps all improve throughout the game at various technologies, giving Canada an excellent incentive to settle in Tundra and continue to do so as other civilizations fight over more contested land, while Canada claims the bounty of the Tundra for themselves and only themselves. 
By the time you reach [Professional%20Sports%20%28Civ6%29](Professional Sports), Ice Hockey Rinks gain an extra 2 and 2 , which makes them viable tiles to actually work for any newly settled cities (although this implies you are still settling cities that late into the game), and otherwise just further empowers Canada's late game strengths. 
Tundra is a very consistent and common type of terrain, unlike Plains and Grassland, which can often randomly overlap or end abruptly, which makes placing the Ice Hockey Rink and getting the maximum +6 from surrounding Tundra and Snow tiles incredibly easy. As each city may only place one Ice Hockey Rink, an ideal setup is to place an [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) within the range of 3 cities, as you will be building a [Stadium%20%28Civ6%29](Stadium) later to raise the adjacency to +10 , place your Ice Hockey Rinks around the Entertainment Complex, but not adjacent to one another, and those cities' [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) in the other spaces to further raise your [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism). 
It should be expected that you will not have the perfect setup every time, and as such, Ice Hockey Rinks also have another, less obvious bonus: they provide 2 [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) to adjacent tiles. Strategically place these in locations adjacent where you plan to place National Parks, and then once you have [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation), you have the freedom of using your Builders to place more Woods and raise your Appeal even further everywhere, and the [Mountie%20%28Civ6%29](Mountie) to realize those parks.