# Ideology (Civ5)

Introduction.
Ideologies are a new end-game concept introduced in the "" expansion pack. Ideologies take your society to the next level of social development, when tradition and customs cease to be the means for some additional bonuses for the empire and instead become a kind of a philosophical system which not only organizes your empire's view of the world, but is also able to affect the hearts and minds of common people in other nations. The three Ideologies available were formerly the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era) [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies), which have now been expanded with additional content and more interesting gameplay mechanics in order to provide another level of depth in the late game.
Basics.
Ideologies can be conceptualized as large, mutually exclusive social policy trees which affect not only one's own [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization), but also exert pressure on other civilizations. Besides bonuses provided, there are also diplomatic repercussions, especially when empires don't share an Ideology. can be strongly affected by ideological interaction, and in fact hamper a civ's development.
Every civilization will be prompted to choose an Ideology upon reaching the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Modern Era) or controlling three [Factory%20%28Civ5%29](Factories) (either by constructing them or gaining control of [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) with such a building). The choices are:
When you are deciding on the Ideology, you can see the recommended Victory types for each Ideology; furthermore, you can see all its tenets when you click on its details. Choose very carefully - the Ideology will channel the rest of the game for you!
By choosing an Ideology, you choose a path for the continued social development of your civilization. You can then focus on that path by adopting tenets for the chosen Ideology. These are basically theme-based social policies, and provide different bonuses for the empire. The way you adopt tenets shapes your Ideology, and tailors it to your needs and goals. See [%23Ideological%20Tenets](below) for more information.
Ideology has a big impact on the diplomatic relations with other civilizations, both in standard negotiations and in the matters of the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress). One very obvious effect is that you can have an idea of a civilization's voting intentions in the Congress if you follow the same Ideology even if you have no [Espionage%20%28Civ5%29%23Diplomats](Diplomat) in their ! But other than that, those that follow the same Ideology as yours will tend to be more friendly to you, supportive, and open to sharing information. On the other hand, those with different Ideologies will tend to become more hostile. Another effect of differing Ideologies is a penalty to your influence over other civilizations (which will make it harder to progress towards a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory)).
Public Opinion and Preferred Ideology.
The new cultural concept which involves a civilization gaining influence over other civilizations with also plays a major role in Ideologies. As in real life, travelers and tourists spread not only the culture of their nation, but also its political ideas, so the generated by a civilization also creates ideological pressure on other civilizations. In other words, politics now becomes a major factor in a nation's life, with the potential power to cause serious harm.
The main effect which expresses this is Public Opinion. Public Opinion refers to how well the people of one civilization feel about the Ideology their leaders have chosen. As such, there is no Public Opinion present with civilizations that have not adopted an Ideology yet.
A civilization that is not being influenced at all, or otherwise being influenced only by civilizations sharing the Ideology, will have the default Public Opinion level of Content (The people are in full agreement with their leaders about the ideology they are following). Conversely, when a civilization is being influenced by another one with different Ideology, its Public Opinion will drop to the lower levels, based on the exact influence difference:
To determine this, the civilization's [Tourism%20%28Civ5%29%23Tourism%20and%20the%20Cultural%20Victory](influence level) (exotic, familiar, etc.) over others is compared to the others' influence level over them - if the incoming influence is higher than the outgoing influence, ideological pressure is created and Public Opinion drops. The larger the difference, the more severe the drop. Each point of difference between the influence levels translates into one point of ideological pressure. Civilizations will also generate ideological pressure when influencing others following the same ideology, but these pressure points act defensively and will cancel out the pressure points coming from different ideologies.
For example, if [American%20%28Civ5%29](America) follows Freedom and is "Popular" towards [Russian%20%28Civ5%29](Russia), and Russia follows Order and is "Familiar" towards America, then America will feel no ideological pressure, but Russia will receive 1 point of ideological pressure towards Freedom, since "Popular" is one level above "Familiar", and suffer from dissidents. However, if the same game also contains [Chinese%20%28Civ5%29](China), also following Order and influencing Russia by 1 point, then the American and Chinese influence will cancel each other out and Russia will stay at "Content".
The effect of low Public Opinion is the reduction of . Discontent from Public Opinion translates directly into a certain level of added for your empire (depending on the number of cities or the number of , whichever is greater). The penalty is more severe the higher the level of discontent is.
Based on the incoming cultural influences, the civilization will also have a Preferred Ideology. If the Public Opinion is Content, then the Preferred Ideology will always be the Ideology currently being followed. Otherwise, citizens will prefer the Ideology of whichever civilization(s) has the most influence over them. Depending on how severe the penalties are, a civilization may be compelled to change to the public's Preferred Ideology.
It is very difficult to maintain a Content Public Opinion level - you need to be a culturally strong civilization, be it in your stat or your total generated, or you will have to deal with some generated from Public Opinion. You can eliminate that by switching Ideology, but you cannot do so while the Public Opinion is Content (and of course, you have no reason to do it in this case). Making an Ideology the World Ideology will effectively remove the Public Opinion for civilizations following that Ideology, while at the same time applying an extra level of Public Opinion against civilizations of different Ideologies, so long as the World Ideology resolution is in place.
Revolution.
When the Public Opinion of an empire drops to the lower level of discontent (Civil Resistance or Revolutionary Wave), and their other sources of aren't enough to counter the negative effects, allowing the empire to reach low general levels of (in the range of -10 to -19), the first adverse effects will manifest themselves with the appearance of Rebel [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) in random locations near cities in your empire. Rebels will attack your empire randomly, like the [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians), but they won't behave exactly like them - don't be confused by their black and red colors! Note also that Rebels are at the same tech level your civilization currently is, which means that they're pretty dangerous.
Even more severe effects will happen when reaches levels as low as -20. At this point some cities within the empire will begin to revolt, meaning that they will leave the empire on their own. The city to revolt will usually be whichever city is closest to the of a civilization following the Preferred Ideology, and it will defect to said civilization. Note that only cities will switch sides, along with the [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) they control - units in the city's territory will not switch sides. All [Great%20Work%20%28Civ5%29](Great Works) in a "rebel" city will also switch to the other civilization. The city will still have a period of resistance and need a [Courthouse%20%28Civ5%29](Courthouse) (or it can be razed or made a puppet).
Because of the severity of these revolts, the game will give you advance warnings about impending city revolts. Pay attention and try to raise in time to prevent the defection, by whatever means necessary.
Finally, in order to satisfy the masses, the civilization undergoing revolution may be compelled to switch to the Preferred Ideology. This brings the Public Opinion back up to Content, and gets rid of originating from Public Opinion, but of course at the cost of the benefits from Tenets that had previously been adopted. Upon switching Ideologies, you get to pick a number of Tenets in your new Ideology equal to the number of Tenets you had in your old Ideology, minus any Early Adopter tenets you may have received from being one of the first two civilizations to pick that Ideology.
In this way, Ideologies and , combined with the World Congress's ability to further reduce and sap the opponents' abilities to fight back, can be used as an effective weapon to cripple opponents' empires and steal cities from them without having to deal with the monetary, production, and diplomatic costs associated with going to war.
Switching Ideology.
It is possible to change your Ideology, whether by choice or by necessity, but this is highly inadvisable. When you switch Ideology, your empire will have a one-turn Anarchy, which means that all your cities simply stop working for one turn - they not only stop their current Production, but they also don't produce any yields. Another, far more serious consequence is that you lose access to all tenets you had adopted from your previous Ideology. And if you had adopted many, this can turn out to be a complete disaster, since you may depend on them to maintain or any other number of yields.
If the switch was a result of a social revolution, then you may not have much choice. In this case, at least you may end up actually recovering your empire's , thanks to Public Opinion being set back to Content and removing all resulting .
Still, it is highly advisable to avoid switching Ideology at all costs, so think carefully when you choose your original Ideology.
Ideological Tenets.
Each Ideology has a set of 16 Tenets, divided into three levels, which represent the gameplay effects of the chosen Ideology. Ideological Tenets can be unlocked by accumulating , the same way you adopt new social policies. When you have accumulated a sufficient amount of , you are given the option to adopt a new social policy or a new Ideological Tenet.
However, Tenets aren't organized into strict "trees" like Social Policies. They are divided into three levels, but all Tenets from the same level are interchangeable - that is, it doesn't matter which ones you will adopt first, as long as you have the necessary number to unlock a next-level Tenet.
You first unlock a Level 1 Tenet slot, which you can fill with any effect you choose from the list of Level 1 Tenets. Every Tenet after the first in the same level unlocks one new slot for a Tenet of the next level. You may choose which Tenet you want to unlock first within a level, much like you choose Beliefs when founding or enhancing a [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](Religion). Note, however, that unlike Beliefs, different civilizations may choose the same Tenet.
Each Level 3 Tenet in an Ideology is associated with one of the [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory conditions) recommended for the Ideology you're currently following, providing some sort of bonus for achieving it. One of these helps you achieve a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory), while the other two give you an edge to achieve two out of the three other available victory conditions.
The first two civilizations to adopt a certain Ideology will receive a reward - two and one Early Adopter free tenet(s), respectively - giving them an early advantage to improve their Ideologies and gameplay.
For detailed strategies for the use of Ideology, check [Ideological%20strategies%20%28Civ5%29](here).
Freedom.
Allows construction of .
Order.
Allows construction of .
Autocracy.
Allows construction of .