# Ides of March (Civ6)

Ides of March is the fifth [Challenge%20of%20the%20month%20%28Civ6%29](challenge of the month) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", running from March 12 to April 9, 2024.
Description.
The Fall of Rome is imminent! As Caesar, do you have what it takes to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat? You've already conquered much of the world, but every civilization that remains now unites against you, and your armies are stretched too thin to defend your empire on every front.
There are difficult choices to be made between now and April 9 when this event ends. Other civilizations' attacks demand your attention, but you also can't afford to ignore the threats posed by barbarians, famine, and natural disasters.
Intro.
The Fall of Rome is imminent! As Caesar, can you snatch victory from the jaws of defeat? You've conquered much of the world, but every remaining civilization now unites against you, and your armies are stretched too thin to defend your empire.
You have difficult choices to make between now and April 9 when this event ends. Attacking enemies demand your attention, but you can't ignore the threats posed by barbarians, famine, and natural disasters.
Strategy.
This isn't an overly difficult challenge, but it takes a long time to complete. As Julius Caesar's [Roman%20%28Civ6%29](Rome), you start with 12 [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and several [Legion%20%28Civ6%29](Legions) under your control on a [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) that encompasses southern [Europe](Europe), northern [Africa](Africa), and parts of [Asia](Asia). You're up against eight opponents - [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium) (under [Basil%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Basil II)), [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](China) (under [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Mandate of Heaven Qin Shi Huang)), [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) (under [Cleopatra%20%28Civ6%29/Ptolemaic](Ptolemaic Cleopatra)), the [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gauls), [Greek%20%28Civ6%29](Greece) (under [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo)), [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedon), [Nubian%20%28Civ6%29](Nubia), and [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenicia) - all of whom are on a team. This means that declaring war on one opponent puts you at war with all of them, and if you're seeking a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) in this challenge (which is the fastest and easiest way to win), you're going to be at war for the rest of the game. Once you're ready to start your conquest, you need to stay committed to it until you capture the last opponent's .
In the opening [turn](turn)s of this challenge, your priorities are to get your empire's economy in order and your [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) in position. Train [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) in [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource)-rich cities, then improve the strategic and luxury resources to get some extra and . Cities that have few resources should instead build [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monuments) for extra [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) and , and frontier cities should either start training [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers) or building [Ancient%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Walls) for protection from invaders. You should also start researching [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation) (to unlock the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor)) and [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy) (to unlock [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy)). Send four of your Legions toward Gallic [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) (gathering them around [Aduatuca](Aduatuca)) and four toward Macedonian territory (putting two to the north and two to the south of [Pella](Pella)), but keep the others close to their starting positions for now.
[Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) will start spawning on Turn 2. Be ready to send any spare Legions you have nearby to clear them out, but always make sure you raid their [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29%23Outposts](outposts) before dispersing them - you won't get any otherwise, and you'll need it to buy [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) and units. You may discover the [Sanguine%20Pact%20%28Civ6%29](Sanguine Pact) while hunting Barbarians, and they're probably the best of the Secret Societies to join in this challenge: their [Vampire%20%28Civ6%29](Vampires) give you additional military might, and there are lots of choice places to build [Vampire%20Castle%20%28Civ6%29](Vampire Castles) for extremely rich yields.
Once you've got your units moving into position, take a look at [Mediolanum](Mediolanum) in the east. It can be stabilized with some effort - first, assign [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor) to it as [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor). Slot [Ilkum%20%28Civ6%29](Ilkum) as your Economic Policy, then send your Legion to chop a nearby [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) in order to instantly train a Builder. You can then use your to purchase the nearby tiles, which your Builder can harvest to boost Mediolanum's Population to the point where it is no longer losing Loyalty. This will significantly hamper [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander's) ability to push into your territory, and will benefit you greatly down the road.
You should be ready to declare war on your opponents no later than Turn 15; immediately after doing so, move Legions into the empty [hex](hex)es to the north and south of Pella to put it under siege and have the Legions around Aduatuca converge on it. If you have any Archers nearby, send them along to support your Legions and whittle down enemy units and cities. You should be able to defeat [Ambiorix%20%28Civ6%29](Ambiorix's) [Gaesatae%20%28Civ6%29](Gaesatae) easily and wipe him out quickly, then send your forces south toward Ugarit to capture it. Pella should also fall pretty quickly, at which point you should recapture Mediolanum if necessary, then let your forces heal and train a [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Ram) and/or 1-2 [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege units) before pushing into Byzantine territory. If [Dido%20%28Civ6%29](Dido) starts sending her [Bireme%20%28Civ6%29](Biremes) to attack [Rome](Rome) before it's done building [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls), purchase an Archer and a [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galley) to fight them off.
You'll need to research [Shipbuilding%20%28Civ6%29](Shipbuilding) to get the units that captured Ugarit into Africa, where you can take [Carthage%20%28city%29](Carthage) and then push east to attack Egypt and Nubia. Meanwhile, the units on the eastern front should wipe out Byzantium (being wary of their [Dromon%20%28Civ6%29](Dromons') attacks) and then push south to capture [Tyre](Tyre) and rendezvous with the units from the western front in Nubian territory, which will leave only China and Greece (and possibly a weakened Phoenicia) for you to deal with. Focus on building a navy to attack Greece and Phoenicia, settling in areas that have new or important resources, and upgrading your units as you research [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) that unlock stronger ones. Building Harbors and [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) in your cities will allow you to create a [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](Road) network with s, and your defensive militia should be more than capable of handling any Barbarians that appear. After they've earned a few s, you can assemble them in the northeast, found a city on Qin Shi Huang's doorstep to use as a staging point, and push toward [Xi%27an](Xi'an) as soon as you're ready.
One way to simultaneously combat Loyalty issues in newly-captured cities and raise a powerful military in this challenge is to appoint Victor and give him [Embrasure%20%28Civ6%29](Embrasure). Assign him to a city you've just captured and wait for him to get established, use your spoils to buy one or two units there (each of which will start with a free ), then move him to the next city you capture and repeat.