# Impi (Civ5)

Game Info.
[Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](Unique) melee unit of the [Zulu%20%28Civ5%29](Zulu) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Replaces the [Pikeman%20%28Civ5%29](Pikeman).
Strategy.
The Impi is the legendary warrior of the Zulus, and one of the most powerful units of its time. When attacking other units, Impis first throw spears in the manner of a ranged attack (dealing some damage without receiving any), then follow up with a regular melee attack.
This acts as two attacks for [Experience%20%28Civ5%29](experience) purposes (allowing Impis to gain experience at up to double the speed of normal Pikemen), but one for costs. Note that when defending, the Impis don't perform the extra attack, meaning that their defensive strength is "normal" compared to other units. The end result is a significant increase in their offensive strength, as well as quick [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions).
The best use of the Impi is in swarming attacks. Large numbers of Impis are often too powerful for opponents to adequately counter. Thanks to the Zulus' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) regarding -50% maintenance costs for melee units, the Zulus are well designed to take advantage of an Impi swarm. Large numbers of Impis become more important the closer you get to the unit's obsolescence, as [Musketman%20%28Civ5%29](Musketmen) and [Rifleman%20%28Civ5%29](Riflemen) cannot gain access to the [Ikanda%20%28Civ5%29](Ikanda) promotions that contribute to the strength of the Impis.
When defending, Impis become increasingly susceptible to damage, especially from gunpowder units. However, when attacking, they remain competitive thanks to their 25% bonus against gunpowder units. Their relatively low costs will also aid in the quick construction of a sizable military by the early [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance Era).
Impis upgrade to Riflemen rather than [Lancer%20%28Civ5%29](Lancers). As such, they become [obsolete](obsolete) with [Rifling%20%28Civ5%29](Rifling) rather than [Metallurgy%20%28Civ5%29](Metallurgy), and remain on the battlefield until the early [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era); furthermore, the anti-cavalry and anti-gunpowder combat bonuses, along with the spear throw, are not retained after upgrading to the Riflemen, so the Zulus will have to either refrain from upgrading some Impis, or research Metallurgy and train Lancers instead. However, the newly upgraded Riflemen still maintain the Ikanda promotions, making them faster and stronger than other Riflemen, whether trained later by the Zulus or those trained by other civilizations.