# Indian (Civ3)

The Indians are a playable [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20Civ3](civilization) in "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)". They are led by [Mohandas%20Gandhi%20%28Civ3%29](Mohandas Gandhi).
The Indians are [Commercial%20%28Civ3%29](Commercial) and [Religious%20%28Civ3%29](Religious). They start the game with [Ceremonial%20Burial%20%28Civ3%29](Ceremonial Burial) and [Alphabet%20%28Civ3%29](Alphabet) and build [War%20Elephant%20%28Civ3%29](War Elephants) instead of [Knight%20%28Civ3%29](Knights).
Unique Unit: the War Elephant.
In many ways, Elephants were the tanks of the ancient era: massive, hard to kill, and incredibly dangerous. One of the most famous showdowns involving elephants took place in 326 B.C. when Alexander the Great squared off with India's Porus, a powerful rajah who commanded an army with as many as 200 elephants. Porus' mighty elephants frightened Alexander's horses and put the fear of God into his infantry, but Alexander had a plan. Alexander's strategy was to attack the mahouts (elephant drivers) and then encircle and assault the elephants' underbellies with spears and whatever else they had. The panicked elephants, however, were not amused, and responded by trampling and goring whatever was in their paths. Luckily for Alexander, the confused beasts trampled over as many (or more) Indian troops as Alexander's. In the end, Porus' forces were defeated, but Alexander's troops were severely traumatized by the memory of the thunderous beasts.
The War Elephant is the Indian version of the knight. Though it shares the same attack, defense, and move ratings of the knight, it requires no natural resources to build, whereas knights require both horses and iron. This distinction allows the Indians to easily produce these powerful juggernauts in any city, irrespective of trade networks.