# Indian (Civ6)

The Indian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Gandhi%20%28Civ6%29](Gandhi), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark purple and turquoise; and (with "") by [Chandragupta%20%28Civ6%29](Chandragupta), under whom their colors are reversed.
The Indians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Dharma, which provides their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) with the [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29%23Follower](Follower Beliefs) of all [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religions) practiced within them. In "", Indian cities also receive +1 {{Amenity6}} for every religion with at least one follower, their [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) have 2 more spreads and their {{TradeRoute6}} output +100% Religious Pressure. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Varu%20%28Civ6%29](Varu), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Stepwell%20%28Civ6%29](Stepwell).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "None"
With strong {{Faith6}} generation, massive and populous cities from their Stepwells, and bonus {{Amenities6}} from present religions, India is one of the best civilizations for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory) under Gandhi. On the other hand, armed with their powerful Varu, India can also compete for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory), particularly under the leadership of Chandragupta.
Dharma.
"Religious pressure and religion follower system".
There are multiple ways a city can accumulate or lose religious pressure:
The number of followers of a certain religion in a city is calculated based on the ratio of religious pressure accumulated among different religions, including atheism, then rounded. For example, a city has 200 religious pressure of Islam, 100 of Buddhism, and 100 of atheism, the ratio of follower will be 2:1:1, respectively. Therefore, if that city has 7 {{Population6}} Population, there will be 3 Islam followers, 1 atheist and 1 Buddhist, none of which will establish a majority religion. When that city reaches 8 {{Population6}} Population, there will be 4 Islam followers, 2 atheists and 2 Buddhists, making Islam the majority religion.
"Bonuses for having multiple religions present in cities".
If going for a Religious Victory, this seems somewhat counter-intuitive. Rather than attempting to extinguish all other religions in your cities (by using an [Inquisitor%20%28Civ6%29](Inquisitor), for example), it is in India's best interest to have a flourishing mixing pot of different religions. However, this ability in and of itself is already quite powerful, because Follower beliefs are some of the most game changing beliefs in the game, with the largest, most game changing benefits from religion, such as the massive amounts of {{Production6}} from Work Ethic or the great boon to {{Culture6}} from Choral Music. What's more, every religion is guaranteed to have a Follower belief, meaning that India is guaranteed to benefit from this so long as there are multiple religions present in their cities.
This ability basically turbo-charges India's religion by adding more Follower beliefs to it, as long as you can balance the number of followers in the city correctly. In order for this ability to achieve highest efficacy, your cities need to have {{Population6}} Population high enough for multiple religions to establish a foothold (your [Stepwell%20%28Civ6%29](Stepwell) will help with this). The maximum number of religions can be founded in a game depends on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) size (not the number of players in game), starting at 2 on Duel maps up to 7 on Huge maps.
Also, in "Gathering Storm", for every religion present in the city, 1 {{Amenity6}} is granted. That is why although not mandatory, India's ability works best when India has a religion of its own, especially when led by Gandhi. Having a religion of your own and establishing it in every city of yours adds at least an extra Follower belief and a belief of another type and 1 {{Amenity6}}. This is especially strong considering that in "Gathering Storm", cities no longer start with 1 free {{Amenity6}} anymore. 
To truly maximize the number of religions present in your city, there are two things to pay attention to:
"Additional spread charges for Missionaries".
This is a useful aspect and synergizes quite well with all the bonuses you will get for having multiple religions in a city. Missionaries have 2 clear advantages over Apostles in facilitating the establishment of multiple religions. First and most obvious, they are a lot cheaper. Second, they are just the better fit for the job. You don't want to completely convert your cities to a new religion, you just want at least 1 follower of each religion present. Each Missionary spread only removes 10% of other religious pressure while each Apostle spread removes 25%, so the chance you accidentally remove too much pressure of minority religions with Missionaries is very low.
When using Missionaries outside of your territory, it can be a bit trickier, especially against religious civilizations with good {{Faith6}} output, like [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia) or [Ethiopian%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia), since Missionaries are very susceptible to Apostles and defending Inquisitors. However, you can circumvent this by starting your religious endeavors earlier than other civilizations. This ability doesn't synergize too well with Chandragupta, but under Gandhi, with the extra {{Faith6}} from this leader ability, the fact that you can easily earn a Golden Classical Era after building a Stepwell and training a Varu for an Exodus of the Evangelists dedication, and maybe the Holy Order belief, you can start spreading your religion way before other civilizations have Apostles. With the Golden Age dedication Exodus of the Evangelists, and later a [Mosque%20%28Civ6%29](Mosque) in the city, and an optional [Hagia%20Sophia%20%28Civ6%29](Hagia Sophia), your Missionaries can have 9 charges. Just from an economic standpoint, as long as you have these conditions lining up, it is always better to purchase a Missionary than an Apostle to spread your religion, unless you're the suzerain of [Yerevan%20%28Civ6%29](Yerevan), which allows you to freely choose any Apostle {{Promotion6}}.
"Boosted religious pressure from Trade Routes".
In "Civilization VI", religious pressure spread from {{TradeRoute6}}s are minor, and even with India's bonus, it still barely makes any difference. The idea of spreading religious pressure through {{TradeRoute6}}s is that you always get back more pressure than you give. Let's say, when City A sends a {{TradeRoute6}} to City B, City A exerts 0.5 pressure of its religion to City B, but receives 1 pressure of City B's religion. (India doubles these numbers to 1 and 2, respectively.) Therefore, the prospect of focusing your {{TradeRoute6}}s to one international destination to flip that city to your religion is incredibly slow and unrealistic, especially for big cities with their own Holy Sites. Even if you're sending domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s between cities with different majority religions, diversifying religious presences to activate your civilization ability, you have a better, faster, more reliable (yet still very cheap) way to achieve this: through Missionaries. All in all, this "ability" is only there for thematic purposes, as its consequences are all very limited.
Satyagraha.
Gandhi has one of the worst leader abilities in the entire game. His bonus stays significant for only a short while, phases out of relevance quickly and can be easily nullified. It is a rare ability whose efficacy depends almost entirely on actions of others, not you, which leads to another issue: lack of reliability. Overall, try your best to found your own religion, and pretty much let fate take the wheel.
"Extra Faith from peaceful religion founders".
Gandhi's India receives 5 {{Faith6}} per turn for each civilization that has founded its own religion and currently not at war, including India. Note that other empires do not have to be at war with India specifically to nullify Gandhi's bonus, it just needs to be at war with any other major civilizations. While this certainly is a significant bonus at the start of the game, it pales a bit in the later stages of the game where you have multiple cities with [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) producing {{Faith6}}, in addition to other sources.
For reference, a single Holy Site with a +2 adjacency bonus, a [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine), a [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple), and a worship building that yields +3 {{Faith6}} (a [Cathedral%20%28Civ6%29](Cathedral), [Gurdwara%20%28Civ6%29](Gurdwara), [Meeting%20House%20%28Civ6%29](Meeting House), [Mosque%20%28Civ6%29](Mosque), [Pagoda%20%28Civ6%29](Pagoda), or [Wat%20%28Civ6%29](Wat)) will produce 13 {{Faith6}} per turn. This is practically the lower limit for how much a well-placed Holy Site can produce; combine the right [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) and pantheon, and you can easily break 20.
In the beginning, focus on exploration to scout out as many civilizations as you can, as the extra {{Faith6}} can be quite substantial in early eras. However, when the conquering begins, you will start to lose this {{Faith6}} bonus quite easily, as it depends on actions of others, not you, and there is little you can do to change it. You can even lose the 5 {{Faith6}} you earn for founding a religion if you receive a declaration of war, so even that {{Faith6}} is not secured by being peaceful. One small opportunity can arise when two religion founders are at war with one another. Although you will lose out on 10 {{Faith6}} per turn since both these civilizations are less likely to have another enemy, you can take advantage of the situation, swoop in and convert both of them.
"Double war weariness for enemies".
In addition, any civilization at war with Gandhi receives double the penalty to {{Amenities6}}. To quickly summarize how war weariness works, for every battle fought and death incurred, both sides of the war gain war weariness. Battles and deaths that take place on foreign soil, and wars in later eras incur more weariness. Also, surprise wars incur more war weariness than wars with a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli).
This bonus, coupled with the Varu, can dissuade other empires from ever declaring war on you. Lots of casualties on Indian soil against Gandhi can incur a huge amount of negative {{Amenities6}} rapidly, which may allow you to stay peaceful and keep your 5 {{Faith6}} for a bit longer (not that this bonus matters that much). However, after your Varu becomes obsolete, you still need to be on the lookout. War weariness is most dreadful during a long, drawn-out war with a lot of casualties. If your army is weak and can barely offer resistance, any invasion attempt will be quick and conclusive, rendering this ability not much of an insurance against invasion, but being totally worthless.
Arthashastra.
Chandragupta is vastly superior as the leader of India. While Gandhi's bonus is insignificant, quickly becomes irrelevant and largely undependable, Chandragupta's ability is powerful and maintains its prowess long after it becomes available, allowing India to snowball quickly toward a Domination Victory.
Chandragupta's India allows you to play more aggressively. With Arthashastra, you may declare a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23War%20of%20Territorial%20Expansion](War of Territorial Expansion) after researching the [Military%20Training%20%28Civ6%29](Military Training) [Civics%20%28Civ6%29](civic). After using this Casus Belli, units gain +5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength and +2 {{Movement6}} for 10 turns. This bonus catapults the status of the Varu from a slow-moving defensive cavalry unit to an unstoppable blitzkrieg Classical Era tanks. After Political Philosophy, in order to reach Military Training, you also need [Military%20Tradition%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tradition) and [Games%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Games and Recreation). Since your first push will be mounted on the shoulders of the Varu, which is unlocked with Horseback Riding, a tech that is easy to beeline, you need a healthy generation of {{Culture6}} in the early game to reach Military Training quickly. Therefore, build [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monuments) in every city and assign [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) with [Connoisseur%20%28Civ6%29](Connoisseur) in your largest city, most likely your {{Capital6}}.
In order to declare a War of Territorial Expansion, you need two cities within 10 tiles of two cities of another civilization, which makes this one of the easier casus belli condition to satisfy. There are two notes regarding this:
Similar to other Casus Belli, a 5-turn denunciation is required. Within 10 turns of a War of Territorial Expansion being declared, a Varu has 45 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength and can move as fast as a [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horseman). Additionally, since a unit next to a Varu has its {{Strength6}} Combat Strength lowered by 5, a Varu basically has 50 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength in battles against adjacent units, essentially making it an Ancient/Classical [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knight)! Try to finish the war quickly before the bonus runs out, so that your army has enough time to heal and start the next conquest. Keep original {{Capital6}} and cities required for Loyalty only, so the lack of {{Amenities6}} won't weigh you down too much. You can completely wipe out empires or you can keep them barely alive, in case you become the target of an [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](Emergency). In that situation, all you need to do is to declare a War of Territorial Expansion on one of the civilizations you have "visited" but still keep alive to give your army a boost against the Emergency participants. The empires you have crippled most likely already denounced you, and cannot cause you extra troubles.
Regarding religions, although India's ability is better if you can found a religion of your own (as detailed above), it is not mandatory. In the early game, you have to prepare for your attacks by building Monuments, Settlers, [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders), and ideally an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) with a [Stable%20%28Civ6%29](Stable), your plate is a bit too full to comfortably fit a Holy Site and a Shrine in anywhere. If you start conquering early and manage to capture a few Holy Sites before all religions are founded, you can potentially get one of your own. Although Crusade seems tempting for any religious-domination civilization, it is very much a "win-more" way of thinking, and you most likely won't use it. Customize your religion to maximize {{Amenities6}} to keep your conquered cities happy and loyal. These Holy Sites, as well as the Stepwells, will help provide {{Faith6}} to be used in combination with the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel), keeping your army up to date beyond the relevance of the Varu.
Stepwell.
The Stepwell is an underwhelming tile improvement, as it directly competes for space with Farms and can usually be replaced with Farms for better {{Food6}} yields.
Players are incentivized to build Stepwells next to a Farm and a Holy Site. A yield of +2 {{Food6}}, +1 {{Faith6}}, and +1 {{Housing6}} is a strong yield in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), when they first become available. Even with just Farm adjacency, +2 {{Food6}} and +1 {{Housing6}} is better than a Farm until [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) is researched. The key words in the previous sentence are "until Feudalism is researched." Feudalism marks a crucial milestone in every civilization's civic development, since it unlocks the powerful [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card). Building Stepwells in the early game means you will have to train more [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to build Farms elsewhere to trigger the {{Inspiration6}} for Feudalism. Feudalism only unlocks two eras after the Stepwell, making any investment into Stepwells inefficient. Additionally, the bonuses for building Stepwells adjacent to multiple Farms and Holy Sites aren't cumulative, so the Stepwell will often interfere with triangular placement of Farms. And since Stepwells cannot be placed next to one another, the total {{Food6}} and {{Housing6}} can get from Stepwells building Stepwells in one city are always less than just focusing on building Farms.
There are three other unique improvements that grant 1 {{Housing6}} right from the get-go: the [Kampung%20%28Civ6%29](Kampung), [Terrace%20Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Terrace Farm), and [Mekewap%20%28Civ6%29](Mekewap). These, however, are among the most powerful improvements in the game because they either have a unique placement restriction that allows the civilization to take advantage of certain terrains before other civilizations can, or provide huge yields that scale well ({{Gold6}} for the Mekewap, {{Production6}} and {{Food6}} for the Terrace Farm and Kampung). Stepwells provide {{Faith6}}, but in an amount so small it doesn't make a difference: +1 with Feudalism and an additional +1 if placed next to a Holy Site. All in all, what the Stepwell critically lacks is an identity, as it's very hard to answer the question of why you should build Stepwells instead of Farms. A Stepwell may require less space and provide more {{Housing6}} than a Farm, but extra {{Housing6}} without enough {{Food6}} to grow your cities is meaningless.
Despite their shortcomings, there are a few situations in which Stepwells should be considered. Since they can be built on terrain that Farms cannot, they make expansion into [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert), [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra), and [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow) biomes more feasible, which is especially important if you plan on building [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra), [St.%20Basil%27s%20Cathedral%20%28Civ6%29](St. Basil's Cathedral), or the [Amundsen-Scott%20Research%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Amundsen-Scott Research Station). As unique improvements, Stepwells built outside a city's 3-[hex](hex) workable area still provide extra {{Housing6}} when Farms do not. Lastly, in the expansions, an early Stepwell and [Varu%20%28Civ6%29](Varu) can help India reach a {{GoldenAge6}} in the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era). [Gandhi%20%28Civ6%29](Gandhi) can pick Exodus of the Evangelists to found and spread his [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion), while [Chandragupta%20%28Civ6%29](Chandragupta) can make good use of the extra [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) pressure when he begins his conquest with the Varu.
Varu.
The most important aspect of the special ability of the Varu is that it acts on multiple units at the same time. A single Varu will reduce the {{Strength6}} Combat Strength of "all" enemy units next to it, so the best use for these majestic beasts is to throw them directly into the line of battle and support them with other hard-hitting troops. The Varu will not only weaken all adjacent enemies, but they will also do decent damage. Varu are also an amazing defensive troop since a group of them will weaken an entire army, reducing the damage done to your [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities).
Under [Gandhi%20%28Civ6%29](Gandhi), this unit is more defensive with a domination tendency for skilled players since it is quite slow, but under [Chandragupta%20%28Civ6%29](Chandragupta), the Varu force turns absolutely deadly. Once a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23War%20of%20Territorial%20Expansion](War of Territorial Expansion) is declared (one of the easier Casus Belli to satisfy), it moves as fast as the standard [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horseman), and its 40 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength and ability to weaken surrounding enemies make it the strongest military unit on the field. A [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman) has only 30 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength (counting its +10 bonus against cavalry) when fighting next to one Varu, and (in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and "") even less when next to two or more of them. Aim for [Military%20Tradition%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tradition) to unlock [Maneuver%20%28Civ6%29](Maneuver) and keep cranking out an army of Varu, and nothing will be able to stop your march. The Varu's {{Strength6}} Combat Strength penalty to nearby units even applies to both land and [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval units), even when the Varu is embarking. However, it will not reduce the {{Strength6}} Combat Strength of a nearby embarked unit below the embarkation {{Strength6}} Combat Strength threshold.
With the release of "", Varu change in some noteworthy ways. The {{Strength6}} Combat Strength penalty they impose on enemy units is no longer cumulative, so enemies will lose 5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength even if they're adjacent to multiple Varu, balancing out its power level a little bit. However, in exchange, their {{Gold6}} maintenance cost is reduced from 3 to 2, so the Indians won't put as much of a strain on their economy by adding some Varu to their army. Lastly, they can still be trained after unlocking [Cuirassier%20%28Civ6%29](Cuirassiers) (until [Combustion%20%28Civ6%29](Combustion) renders them [obsolete](obsolete)).
Overall, the Varu is a powerful and effective unit killer. Its negative {{Strength6}} Combat Strength aura helps your other units, especially ranged units on the backline, deal more damage on offense and take less damage on defense as well. It is a crucial unit under Chandragupta, much less so under Gandhi.
Victory Types.
With their boost to {{Faith6}} from Stepwells and Satyagraha, India is among the top contenders for a Religious Victory. The penalty to {{Amenities6}} for other civilizations helps Gandhi survive the inevitable backlash in the form of Holy Wars from practically all other founders of religions, while Chandragupta can just conquer early religious rivals instead.
Alternatively, the bonus {{Faith6}} may be fueled towards [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great People), particularly if India can acquire the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle). Following this approach, they can focus on a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory), but there are a lot of other civilizations that have the advantage against them.
A third approach is to build massive amount of {{Faith6}} generation, change government to a [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) and purchase a massive army with {{Faith6}} to conquer the world. In addition to your advantage in warmongering, your enemies' cities will struggle against the inevitable {{Amenity6}} penalty (if you're playing as Gandhi) or a faster-moving army (if playing as Chandragupta).
[Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory) is a possibility if focusing on building tall (large cities) and funnelling the {{Population6}} Population towards scientific districts, provided you can acquire enough {{Amenities6}} to keep them all happy.
Domination Victory becomes a more viable option when playing as Chandragupta. Both the Stepwell and the Varu are available along with the Dharma ability while the leader bonus becomes Arthashastra. With Arthashastra, declaring a War of Territorial Expansion gives you +2 {{Moves6}} and +5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength for military units for 10 turns, which can be a decisive factor in the war. After conquering another civ with a religion, use your [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) to spread their religion to your cities to take advantage of the civ ability. This can easily get you 2-3 more {{Amenities6}} per city and massive bonuses to cities with Holy Sites. This benefits your empire and makes future conquest much easier.
Counter Strategy.
Most of India's bonuses are weak and inconsequential, with the exception of Chandragupta's leader ability...assuming he can activate it. If he can't declare a War of Territorial Expansion, he literally doesn't have a leader ability, and like any Casus Belli, that has a five-turn period of warning. Unless you're [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canada), you can cut in with a Surprise War and fight him on your own terms - just be aware of the {{Grievances6}} from such an approach.
That aside, the only big thing you need to worry about against India is their potential for a strong religious push. Having your own religion and defending it in your own lands will stop India ever winning a Religious Victory, and because India has a particular incentive to rely on their buffed Missionaries for religious spread, you can bring Apostles into theological combat and face less resistance than you might think. The [Proselytizer%20%28Civ6%29](Proselytizer) {{Promotion6}} is particularly valuable for taking India down a peg, because its charges will weaken all other religions in that city and that can deny them {{Amenities6}} and other bonuses.