# Indian (Civ5)

The Indian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The Indian civilization is one of the most suitable for a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory). Their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) makes initial expansion slower, but once [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) reach size 6, [Gandhi%20%28Civ5%29](Gandhi's) bonus kicks in. While Gandhi does well with a few large cities, his ability also makes him uniquely suited for maintaining a wide empire with many cities. From the start, adopt the [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policies) in the [Tradition%20%28Civ5%29](Tradition) tree (and later the [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29%23Freedom](Freedom ideology)) to maximize growth and use and make the most of a limited [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory).
Thanks to India's unique ability, -boosting [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) are twice as effective for them - a [Circus%20%28Civ5%29](Circus), for example, will make 4 of their s happy instead of the usual 2. It is also worth noting that in ' and ', the Indians have a different Local Happiness cap than other civilizations. While the regular cap is equal to the of the city, India's cap is only 67% of that number. Considering that fact and assuming both civilizations can reach such a high amount of local , India is "guaranteed" to have a advantage only once a city reaches 18 (assuming a Standard or smaller [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map); -6 - (18 * 0.5) + (18 * 0.67) = -2.94 for India is better than -3 - 18 + 18 = -3 for another civilization).
Due to their unique ability, the Indians are vulnerable to early elimination from expansionist and aggressive militaristic empires such as the [Greek%20%28Civ5%29](Greeks), [Hunnic%20%28Civ5%29](Huns), [Roman%20%28Civ5%29](Romans), and [Mongolian%20%28Civ5%29](Mongols). However, because they have reduced penalties for having larger sizes with fewer cities, they can become a late-game powerhouse with well-defended cities.
Their [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](unique building), the [Mughal%20Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Mughal Fort), is also essential for defense against aggressive neighbors, and later in the game contributes to a cultural victory with its added bonus.