# Indonesian (Civ6)

The Indonesian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Gitarja%20%28Civ6%29](Gitarja), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark red and turquoise. They are available with the [Khmer%20and%20Indonesia%20Civilization%20%26amp%3B%20Scenario%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer and Indonesia Civilization &amp; Scenario Pack), which was released on October 19, 2017.
The Indonesians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Great Nusantara, which causes [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) and [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) to provide a minor adjacency bonus to [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones), and [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) and +1 {{Amenity6}} from entertainment to [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Jong%20%28Civ6%29](Jong) (which replaces the [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigate)), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Kampung%20%28Civ6%29](Kampung).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 2 towards [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast)"
Indonesia led by Gitarja is a versatile naval powerhouse, with all of their bonuses impactful enough to lead them to any victory type. They can create bustling and populous coastal cities for a Scientific Victory or a Cultural Victory, quickly spread their good words for a Religious Victory or raid and capture any undefended coastal territory for a Domination Victory.
Exalted Goddess of the Three Worlds.
"City Centers next to a Lake or a Coast tile gain {{Faith6}}".
This is a really powerful aspect of Gitarja. Although it tapers off in relevance very quickly, being able to earn {{Faith6}} from turn 1 without having to do anything challenging is incredible, since it allows you the first pick of [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheons) in most game (unless [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Mali) is in the game). That also means you do not have to run the underwhelming [God%20King%20%28Civ6%29](God King) card and can freely run [Urban%20Planning%20%28Civ6%29](Urban Planning), the much better choice of the two cards unlocked by [Code%20of%20Laws%20%28Civ6%29](Code of Laws). Because of this staggering level of importance in the early game, regardless of your surroundings, your {{Capital6}} must always be settled next to a Lake or a Coast tile to take full advantage of this. Although [Religious%20Settlements%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Settlements) is ever so tempting, [God%20of%20the%20Sea%20%28Civ6%29](God of the Sea) is also a good [Pantheons%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) for the Indonesians considering how well it synergizes with the [Kampung%20%28Civ6%29](Kampung).
After getting your pantheon, this bonus loses a significant part of its power and is relegated to a more complimentary role. It is not useless, however, since yields rewarded for doing what you would want to do anyway are always welcome. You should still put your cities close to the coastline to be able to use your Kampung, but if there is a good city spot slightly inland, feel free to forgo the 2 {{Faith6}}, as long as that spot will have enough potential locations for Kampungs later. Under Gitarja, this amount of {{Faith6}} from City Centers, combined with {{Faith6}} from Holy Sites, can be used to buy religious units if you are aiming for a religious victory, [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers) and [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) (thanks to the Monumentality [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age Dedication)) if you intend to play a peaceful game with a scientific or cultural victory in mind, or can be saved up to buy naval units later for a powerful timing push with your unique unit. 
Although your leader ability and civilization ability affect both Coast and Lake tiles, and the Kampung also can be built in both, Coast tiles are undeniably vastly superior. Remember, the Kampung, one of the best improvements in the game, has to be built next to a sea resource, which means you are unlikely to be able to make use of it if your city is next to a Lake. An Indonesian city without Kampungs is like a [Korean%20%28Civ6%29](Korean) city without a [Seowon%20%28Civ6%29](Seowon), it will perform way below its full potential.
"Naval units can be purchased with {{Faith6}}".
Any coastal Indonesian city or city with a Harbor can purchase naval units with {{Faith6}}. The {{Faith6}} cost is double the {{Production6}} cost and half the {{Gold6}} purchasing cost. Later when you research [Reformed%20Church%20%28Civ6%29](Reformed Church), [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) will apply a 15% discount to all {{Faith6}} purchases. Later, when you unlock [Electricity%20%28Civ6%29](Electricity), Fleets and Armadas can also be bought outright in cities with a [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport). Remember, this ability is only unique to Gitarja, as the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel)'s {{Faith6}} purchasing ability only applies to land units.
In order to use it effectively, it is quite obvious you need a good income of {{Faith6}}. The extra {{Faith6}} from coastal cities can only take you that far, building Holy Sites is an absolute must. Every city you settle in the first two eras should have a Holy Site, since these early sources of {{Faith6}} are crucial in deciding how successful your Jong timing push would be. Generally speaking, as Indonesia, your {{Faith6}} income is more generous than your {{Gold6}}, since your naval units will drain {{Gold6}} as maintenance, but that also means Indonesia can raise an army of ships out of nothing faster than any other civilization in the game, since the {{Faith6}} purchasing cost is only half of the {{Gold6}} purchasing cost.
This is the ability that catapults the Jong to a god tier [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit). The Jong is only a better than average unit without Gitarja, but under her, this unit is an absolutely deadly force. (Read more below in the Jong section).
After many changes, updates and expansions, {{Faith6}} has become the most versatile currency in game, so being able to purchase naval units with {{Faith6}} means you have to let something else go, like religious units, [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists) and [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands), or {{District6}}s, since there won't be enough to go around for everything. However, considering how bountiful a successful push with the Jong can be (and how simple it is to pull it off), you should consider saving your {{Faith6}} before the arrival of your unique unit, and then after your conquest, you can switch your direction to spend {{Faith6}} on something else if needed. 
"No embark and disembark {{Moves6}} cost for religious units".
Last and definitely the least useful bonus of Gitarja, this aspect is similar to the Norwegian civilization ability but applies only to religious units. It slightly helps the religious conversion process when you want to spread your religion to other continents. Even when you are aiming for a religious victory, this ability doesn't make spreading your religion easier or more efficient, it is more like a quality-of-life type of bonus, as it will only save you a turn or two when moving your religious units around. Overall, not that impressive.
Great Nusantara.
This civilization ability is not especially impressive in itself, but it works well as a supporting piece to other more impactful parts Indonesia's strategy. The major problem coastal empires often have is that their {{District6}}s often have low adjacency bonuses. Indonesia may run into this problem more often than most, since while other naval civilizations only need to put their cities on the coast to activate their bonuses, Indonesia loves tiny landmasses to truly make use of their Kampungs. Their civilization ability helps alleviate that: each Lake/Coast tile provides a minor adjacency bonus to [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) and [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones). Also, [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes) receive 1 extra {{Amenity6}} if built next to a Lake or Coast tile. The yields are not enough to be game changing, as mentioned above, the purpose of this ability is purely complementary. In theory, this ability belongs to the same trope as the [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Dutch) civilization ability, or the [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australian) civilization ability, but inferior to both. 
Whenever possible, the Indonesians should place their {{District6}}s on coastal tiles to increase their adjacency bonuses. Space may present a problem unless the Indonesians are able to colonize several larger islands or the coastline of a massive one, so they should generally focus on building Holy Sites and Theater Squares to boost their {{Faith6}} and {{Culture6}} output. {{Faith6}} is undoubtedly important for Indonesia, but {{Culture6}} is as well, even when you are not going for a cultural victory, since the Jong is unlocked on the civic tree. Due to your Kampungs and the coastal {{District6}} lines, make sure you guard your coast well against coastal raiding, especially if you discover that [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norway) is present in your game. [Harald%20Hardrada%20%28Civ6%29](Harald Hardrada) can perform coastal raiding since the first era of the game, making him Indonesia's archenemy. Coastal raiding cannot be performed if his ships are not adjacent to the coastline, or if there are units of yours standing on the land tiles he wants to raid. The [Ottoman%20%28Civ6%29](Ottoman) [Barbary%20Corsair%20%28Civ6%29](Barbary Corsair) also excels at raiding and is available earlier than the standard [Privateer%20%28Civ6%29](Privateer), making it quite an effective raiding vessel. However, since your Jong is also available around the same time, the Ottomans are only fearsome if they somehow manage to generate more {{Culture6}} and unlock civics faster than you, which is unlikely considering the natures of the two civilizations (how much the Ottomans prioritize unlocking Barbary Corsairs versus how much Indonesia prioritize Jong).
If the Indonesians encounter [Nan%20Madol%20%28Civ6%29](Nan Madol), they should make an effort to befriend them - they grant +2 {{Culture6}} to each coastal {{District6}}, which can literally double Indonesia's {{Culture6}} at certain points in the game and has excellent synergy with Great Nusantara.
Kampung.
The Kampung is a rare tile improvement that is absolutely game changing. It is so powerful that it allows Indonesia to do what others consider to be an impossibility: settling and growing productive cities on tiny landmasses. Prime locations to look out for are the ones rich in sea resources. Ones with many concentrated spots of sea resources allow constructions of Kampungs with powerful yields, helping cities grow and become productive faster, while ones with spread out resources allow the constructions of many Kampungs, so these cities will grow taller and for a longer period of time. 
At the beginning, each Kampung provides 1 {{Production6}}, 1 {{Housing6}}, plus 1 {{Food6}} for each adjacent Fishing Boats. With a Lighthouse in place, considering a Kampung will be next to at least one Fishing Boats improvement, combined with the base yields of Lake and Coast tiles, each Kampung can provide 4 {{Food6}}, 1 {{Production6}}, 1 {{Housing6}} and 1 {{Gold6}}, which is really powerful. With the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance) tech [Mass%20Production%20%28Civ6%29](Mass Production), each Kampung provides a whopping 2 {{Housing6}}; 3 Kampungs provide the same amount of {{Housing6}} as a [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) in a [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Breathtaking) tile. Remember, unlike other {{Housing6}} improvements, the strongest selling point of Kampungs is that they can be placed next to one another; therefore, just 1 sea resource can be totally surrounded by Kampungs, which results in a massive amount of {{Housing6}} very early on. Although it seems like this improvement only has 2 scaling points in terms of yields at Mass Production and [Civil%20Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Engineering), that is not all there is. Taking into account that the Lighthouse and the [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport) also add extra to Coast and Lake tiles, every Kampung tile will be bustling with an eclectic mix of yields, especially when you manage to cover the entire coast with this improvement. Just with the Kampung alone, Indonesia can set up populous and productive cities even when the amount of land given is limited, and they can easily claim spots where other civilizations may be more reluctant to expand to.
Up until the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), Kampungs can only be built next to Fishing Boats resources. When {{Oil6}} is revealed, more locations can be filled with Kampungs, since they can be built next to {{Oil6}} as well, but the yields will not be improved by adjacent [Offshore%20Oil%20Rig%20%28Civ6%29](Offshore Oil Rigs).
Also, with Flight, Kampungs will start generating {{Tourism6}} from {{Food6}}. For an Indonesia playthrough pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory), this is essential. The base {{Food6}} yields of the Coast and Lake tiles will not generate {{Tourism6}}, but the additional {{Food6}} from the Lighthouse does. Each Kampung, therefore, has the potential to generate around 2 to 4 {{Tourism6}}, and considering the sheer number of this improvement in your whole empire, this can be really significant. If you want to go down such path, remember to invest into [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) early on to grab some {{GreatPeople6}}, which can also help you generate {{Culture6}} to unlock your Jong faster. Since your civilization loves settling on small landmasses, your precious bits of land are often dedicated to building Wonders and {{District6}}s, which makes fitting National Parks inside your cities a tall order. For that reason, prioritize researching [Cold%20War%20%28Civ6%29](Cold War) to unlock [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) to spend your {{Faith6}} on instead.
The Kampung offering {{Production6}} doubles up on Indonesia's favorite city-state, [Auckland%20%28Civ6%29](Auckland), who provides +1 {{Production6}} to all [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tiles. When combined with a [Shipyard%20%28Civ6%29](Shipyard), a single Kampung tile will provide 3 {{Production6}} before [Civil%20Engineering%20%28technology%29%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Engineering) and 4 {{Production6}} after, turning the sea into more productive tiles than hills for other civs. Auckland, along with the aforementioned Nan Madol, should always be your highest priority city-state, and the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus), while being a top tier [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) for anyone, works particularly well with Indonesia, and you should always seek to construct it in at least one city.
Jong.
One of the most feared [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval units) in the game, the Jong can be deadly under adept leadership. The strength of this unit lies not in its statistics, but in its timing being extremely favored by the militaristic landscape of the game.
Gitarja's leader ability allows the Jong to be ready to take on the world in the same turn it is unlocked. She can buy naval units with {{Faith6}}, so right before Mercenaries is unlocked, [Quadrireme%20%28Civ6%29](Quadriremes) can be bought en masse at 240 {{Faith6}} each and then upgraded into Jong using {{Gold6}}. With the [Professional%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Professional Army) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) (which is also available with Mercenaries), these Quadriremes can be upgraded cheaply at only 140 {{Gold6}} each. Since Gitarja is the only one who can buy naval units with {{Faith6}}, this tactic is specific to Indonesia. If she could not buy Quadriremes with {{Faith6}}, there's no chance she could save enough {{Gold6}} in just two eras to buy and upgrade a meaningful number of Quadriremes, so her ability is absolutely crucial in pulling off this trick by dividing the burden for both types of currency. Your job is to save up as much {{Gold6}} and {{Faith6}} as possible when approaching Mercenaries. If you have to hard-build Jong, you aren't playing them to their full potential and will miss the opportunity for one of the most powerful unique unit pushes in the game.
Unlike the Frigate it replaces, which is unlocked with a [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance-era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology), the Jong is unlocked with a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval-era) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic). Obviously the Jong is not the only unique unit that is unlocked earlier than the standard version, but it comes at a time that allows it to wrest control of the sea without any resistance. In the Medieval Era, there are only two standard naval units: [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galleys), which are obsolete and pose no threat to Jong; and Quadriremes, which are of limited use because of their high cost and short {{Range6}}. The timing of the Jong is at such a brilliant spot that it's guaranteed to dominate the entire ocean if you play your cards correctly. The standard Frigate is unlocked a whole era after the Jong, so unless your opponents beeline [Square%20Rigging%20%28Civ6%29](Square Rigging) (which is very uncommon for any civilization except the [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Dutch)), you will have plenty of time to conquer your neighbors. And remember, no one else has the ability to instantly create a huge armada of ships like you, so even when their Frigate is unlocked, you still always have the numbers and {{Promotion6}} advantage. This also means that unlike Frigates, Jong benefit from Classical and Medieval {{Admiral6}}s, but since you are a naval civilization who is most likely playing on a water map, Harbors should be present in most, if not all of your cities. And besides, you're Indonesia, your civilization ability incentivizes you to put your cities along the coastline anyway. 
The most incredible thing about the Jong is that, in "Gathering Storm", Frigates require {{Niter6}} while Jong do not, so you can crank out Jong after Jong based on how much {{Gold6}} and {{Faith6}} you have, and there's no downtime waiting to accumulate strategic resources. It's this utterly unmatched speed from the point it becomes available to when a huge armada of Jong sails to your neighbor's doorstep that makes it so fearsome, and there isn't much enemies can do to stop the advance of your units for quite a long time.
Even if the Jong had no other bonuses besides its brilliant timing, it would still be a top tier unique unit, but it does gain 5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength whenever it's in a formation. As a naval unit, it can be in formation with a land military unit, a support unit, or a civilian unit, all of which provide the same bonus to the Jong; however, the bonus is not cumulative if a Jong is in formation with more than one unit (e.g. a {{Admiral6}} and a land unit). The Jong is innately faster than the Frigate with 5 {{Moves6}}, which is almost guaranteed to be at least 6 {{Moves6}} when it is unlocked, since [Mathematics%20%28Civ6%29](Mathematics) is a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical) tech. A Jong in formation and next to a {{Admiral6}} has 65 {{RangedStrength6}} Ranged Strength, stronger than a [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannon) unlocked 2 eras later. It can kill [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen) and [Catapult%20%28Civ6%29](Catapults) in a single shot, so land units with ranged attacks are also not a problem.
The last bonus of the Jong is that units in formation with it share its {{Moves6}}. The key advantage of this bonus is the speed at which you can escort your {{Admiral6}} and your land army with you on your naval conquest. Not only these units provide additional {{Strength6}} Combat Strength for your Jong, they can help deal the last blow to cities that settle two tiles inland where your Jong can reach but your naval melee units cannot. Remember, in order to use this ability, you need to move your Jong, not the unit in formation; otherwise, the formation can only move to the maximum ability of the embarked unit and then breaks. A unit that has already used up its {{Moves6}} this turn can still move if it is in formation with a Jong, so this ability allows the Jong to immediately transport land units which are out of {{Moves6}} due to embarkation. Later in the game, while heavily-promoted Jong can go on and become Battleships, new and inexperienced Jong can be dedicated to transportation purposes only, as a few Jong can help embarked units traverse long distance within a turn. This is how to do it: put a unit in formation with a Jong, move the formation to the desired direction; when that Jong has 1 {{Moves6}} left, exit formation and move the next Jong in and attach it with the embarked unit. Each Jong has 6 {{Moves6}} with Mathematics, and with enough Jong and each Jong in its correctly planned location to receive the embarked unit from the previous one, you can move a unit through an open sea strait in a turn. Since this has an unlimited rinse-and-repeat potential, the more Jong you dedicate to this purpose, the longer distance your embarked unit can move in one turn. Although the [Great%20Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Great Lighthouse) is still an underwhelming and unnecessary Wonder to build yourself, if you happen to capture it during your conquest, it can help you tremendously.
Overall, considering the emphatical importance of this unit, it is advisable you invest your resources in the early game to generate as much {{Culture6}} as possible and beeline straight for Mercenaries after [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy). Prioritize building the [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument) in every new settlement and pick up Choral Music as the Follower Belief for your [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religion). The five civics you need after Political Philosophy before reaching Mercenaries are [Games%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Games and Recreation), [Defensive%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Defensive Tactics), [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism), [Military%20Tradition%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tradition) and [Military%20Training%20%28Civ6%29](Military Training). While there is not much you can do about Games and Recreation and Defensive Tactics, boosting Feudalism and Military Tradition is quite easy. If your empire has good early {{Production6}}, you can build one Encampment to boost Military Training as well. To boost Mercenaries, you can just build cheap units like Scouts or Swordsmen. The {{Production6}} will not be totally wasted since you will put these units in formation with your Jong to boost their {{Strength6}} Combat Strength anyway, and you will naturally need melee units to capture inland cities. 
Meanwhile, on the tech tree, head for [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography), as you will need to research it before the Jong can enter [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Ocean) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles)! Also, this tech unlocks Caravels, which can help with capturing coastal cities. Don't forget that having a next-generation ship doesn't automatically mean that it can move freely in the ocean, and it being unlocked with a civic instead of the normal tech development also means that it is fully possible the Indonesians will get access to it before they've advanced sufficiently in the tech tree to unlock its full potential. Without Cartography, the Jong is constrained to [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tiles, and its movement may get easily blocked by lesser ships or national borders. Alternatively, if you can snag and activate the [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admiral) [Leif%20Erikson%20%28Civ6%29](Leif Erikson) you can hold off on researching Cartography as Erikson's ability grant access to ocean tiles with +1 [Sight%20%28Civ6%29](Sight) to boot.
Victory Types.
Indonesia's bonuses make them a strong maritime civilization that can pursue any victory condition under the right circumstances. A [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) is overwhelmingly the best choice for Indonesia, since a well timed Jong conquest can be unstoppable. A [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory) is not out of reach, as it makes the best use of the civilization and leader abilities, while a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory) allows them to capitalize on the incredible {{Tourism6}} potential from the Kampungs. A [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Scientific Victory) appears to be the victory type that Indonesia would have the most difficulty pursuing, but in actuality, as [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs) spawn on [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast), Indonesia has a higher chance of gaining extra adjacency on their [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) combined with Great Nusantara than any other {{District6}}.
Counter Strategy.
Indonesia can be a strong opponent to go against on an Island Plates or Archipelago [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). Similar to [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam), Indonesia can be a quite passive civilization that is hard to invade navally, but also a dreadful aggressor when they hit their timing right, and you have to be able to prepare for both situations, especially the latter. 
If you want to truly conquer Indonesian coastal cities, that can be tough, since they can summon up a huge number of ships in an instant, but it is worth noting that Indonesia is especially susceptible to coastal raiding. They love putting their {{District6}}s on the coast thanks to their civilization ability, and the sheer number of Kampungs (which provide healing when pillaged) will easily sustain your ships. Harald Hardrada, the king of raiding himself, is definitely the bane of Indonesia, since he can start raiding since the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), which forces Indonesia to expend their resources to muster some sorts of defense before their power peak.
In order to defend against Indonesia, you need to have a good {{Science6}} generation to unlock [Square%20Rigging%20%28Civ6%29](Square Rigging) as soon as possible. You cannot defend against Jong without [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigates). [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen), Walls and an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) close to the coast can do a decent job. Only use Crossbowmen if you have a defensible {{District6}} to station them; otherwise, Jong in formations can kill Crossbowmen in one shot. The same can be said for siege units, which may seem better as a defensive measure as they do not incur a damage penalty when attacking naval units, although neither [Catapult%20%28Civ6%29](Catapults) nor [Trebuchet%20%28Civ6%29](Trebuchet) are as ubiquitous as Crossbowmen. Since Jong are not as nimble as [Voi%20Chi%E1%BA%BFn%20%28Civ6%29](Voi Chiến), you can effectively limit the number of water tiles from which a Jong can shoot your City Center and strategize the number of required defending units accordingly. Civilizations with outstanding {{Science6}} like [Korean%20%28Civ6%29](Korea), [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya) or [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia) who can unlock Frigates within a reasonable amount of time can defend against Jong quite well as well.