# Indonesian (Civ5)

The Indonesian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
Indonesia is one of the most versatile civilizations, with some trading and religious bonuses which don't point to a particular [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) path.
Indonesia has some truly unique features. One of them is their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability), Spice Islanders, which allows them to get two free copies of one of their three possible unique [Resources%20%28Civ5%29%23Luxury%20Resources](luxury resources) upon the founding of a [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) on a continent that does not contain the Indonesian or another city with a unique luxury resource. (In other words, they must settle a city on a third new landmass to get their second unique resource and a fourth new landmass to get their third and final unique resource. Note that even one-tile islands count as continents, despite not being large enough to qualify as such.) These luxury resources are , , and . These luxuries come "extra"; that is, they are immediately available for use and trade, and potentially increase the total number of luxuries in the game by three. This means that all games which have Indonesia in play will have a bigger total number of luxuries available - an interesting situation.
To make practical use of this unique ability, you will have to expand your empire overseas, which might not be that easy on any [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) setting other than Archipelago. It means researching [Sailing%20%28Civ5%29](Sailing) early on, then [Optics%20%28Civ5%29](Optics), then scrambling around the sea with your [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settler) to find a new continent (or island) that has yet to have an Indonesian city founded. The problem is, if you happen to be on a large continent, it could become practically impossible to find a suitable piece of land - when [Astronomy%20%28Civ5%29](Astronomy) finally allows you to traverse [Ocean%20%28Civ5%29](ocean), suitable lands might be taken already, or be very far away!
Another advantage of the Indonesian unique ability is the fact that the three special cities can never be razed, meaning you will always have a chance to reclaim them should someone capture them. Note that the unique ability is limited to the first three cities founded in three different continents or islands that do not contain your .
Indonesia's other great unique feature is their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique unit), the [Kris%20Swordsman%20%28Civ5%29](Kris Swordsman), which replaces the [Swordsman%20%28Civ5%29](Swordsman). It receives a free [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion) after its first combat, chosen randomly from a set of eight completely unique promotions. You never know exactly what the promotion will be until your unit gets engaged in a combat for the first time. Most of the possible promotions are quite powerful, but be aware that some promotions are actually detrimental to the unit.
The Indonesians, unlike other civilizations, are friendly to all [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](religions), not only their own. The unique feature which mirrors this is the [Candi%20%28Civ5%29](Candi). Besides the regular bonus of the [Garden%20%28Civ5%29](Garden) it replaces, the Candi doesn't need to border fresh water and also generates for each religion with at least one follower in that city, so don't bother using your [Inquisitor%20%28Civ5%29](Inquisitors)!
Finally, there is something to remember about the unique ability: because the game places the luxury resource on the tile where the city is built, it "overwrites" any resource that previously existed there. So don't build these cities on top of strategic or luxury resources! Also, the unique resources have their own tile potential bonus, +2 , which is always in effect (since it appears right on the city tile).