# Industrial Zone (Civ6)

The Industrial Zone is a specialty {{District6}} in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", dedicated to production and industry. It requires [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in an Industrial Zone:
Strategy.
The Industrial Zone is one of the most important districts, maybe even the most important one. Its adjacency bonus is easy to activate (there are tons of opportunities to build [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) and [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries) in the game), and is an important source of {{Production6}} early to mid game. And {{Production6}} is the most important resource in "Civilization VI". As with previous installments, {{Production6}} is the basis for war potential, for city development, for wonder building and for space race—just about everything. In "Civilization VI", {{Production6}} is even more important because city size is limited by {{Housing6}} in early to mid game and as a result the importance of {{Food6}} is greatly reduced compared to "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Adjacency bonus.
Due to the prevalence of adjacency bonuses, it is important to surround your Industrial Zones with [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) and [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries) (with exception of [German%20%28Civ6%29](Germany)). Seek a hilly terrain, or a cluster of minable Resources, and plan your Industrial Zone next to them. As a rule of thumb, +3 {{Production6}} should be achieved and +2 {{Production6}} should be a minimum. Use Map Pins to plan ahead. If a city has mostly flat tiles, the priority of its Industrial Zone can be lower than its [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) or [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor), since a {{TradeRoute6}} may provide a greater amount of {{Production6}} instead.
Caution should also be taken into consideration when planning an Industrial Zone, as they will lower the Appeal of surrounding tiles. As such, it is recommended to keep them away from [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) and avoid building [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhoods) near them.
In "", the earlier strategy of [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) and [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries) should basically be forgone, as the minor bonus from these improvements pales in comparison to the bonuses from [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts), [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams), and [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals). Each grants +2 {{Production6}} to Industrial Zones, and since the former two are relatively easy to construct (i.e., does not have too challenging placement requirements) you should plan your city in advance where you can construct these districts to net you an easy {{Production6}} boost. One hidden feature of this is that all of these districts also provide their normal minor adjacency bonus to the Industrial Zone - they actually provide +2.5 {{Production6}} per district, so if your Industrial Zone is placed next to an Aqueduct and a Dam, its starting bonus will be at least +5. 
The +1 {{Production6}} adjacency bonus from Strategic Resources are also quite decent, but since it's rare that you'll encounter a spot surrounded by them it's still better to rely on Aqueduct/Dam/Canal adjacencies and to think of them as a lucky additional bonus if you happen to be able to fit it in your planning. An upside is that adjacency bonuses to Strategic Resources and Mines on the same tile stack; therefore, all improved Strategic Resources (except for {{Horses6}}, which are improved by [Pasture%20%28Civ6%29](Pastures)) will grant +1.5 {{Production6}} to Industrial Zones.
For a detailed guide on city planning surrounding the Industrial Zone, head [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here).
Regional Buildings.
As with the [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex), the second and third buildings of Industrial Zone can extend their effects to all cities within 6 tiles. As of the Winter Update of 2016, the area effects of multiple buildings of the same type no longer stack unless using the [Vertical%20Integration%20%28Civ6%29](Vertical Integration) ability of [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus). Nevertheless, the area effect of [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory) and [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Power Plant) means only one city needs to construct these two buildings among a city cluster, proper use of which saves you valuable production turns. If you have multiple otherwise equivalent locations for an Industrial Zone of a centrally located city or an early city (you are more able to quickly construct higher tier buildings in older cities), try to pick the spot that maximizes the future coverage of its [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory) and [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Power Plant). Factory is also a major way old cities can help new cities. However, remember that even though higher-tier buildings may not provide their {{Production6}} bonus (due to another regional building already providing it), they will still provide Citizen slots for additional local {{Production6}} and {{GreatPersonIcon6}} Great Person points. You will have to decide on a case-by-case basis whether it will be worth the effort to spend the number of turns necessary to build them, or you can build something more useful instead.
In "Gathering Storm "area-effects also function for the new {{Power6}} system! The new [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Power Plants) will also provide {{Power6}} to all cities within 6 tiles, and this makes proper positioning even more important.
[Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineer) [Nikola%20Tesla%20%28Civ6%29](Nikola Tesla) can extend the effect of one Industrial Zone by 3 tiles while increasing the {{Production6}} bonus of each of its buildings by 2. This is one of the best [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineers). However, due to the random nature of [Great%20People%20%28Civ6%29](Great People), it is usually difficult to plan with [Nikola%20Tesla%20%28Civ6%29](Nikola Tesla) in mind.
Choice of Industrial Zone location.
Things to consider (in order of importance):
Power Plants in "Gathering Storm".
In the "Gathering Storm" expansion, the Power Plant building is split now into three new buildings: the [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant), the [Oil%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Oil Power Plant), and the [Nuclear%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Power Plant). They are all constructed in the Industrial Zone as a Tier 3 building, in the place of the old generic Power Plant, and are one of the main ingredients of the new {{Power6}} system.
Each district may contain only one type of Power Plant at any given time. However, there are now special city [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects) via which the existing Power Plant in the city may be switched to another type.
Some Power Plants can extend their {{Production6}} and {{Science6}} bonuses to nearby City Centers. When multiple Power Plants are within range of a City Center, the highest bonus in that City Center takes precedence.
For example, suppose City A has a [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant) which gives +6 {{Production6}} due to its Industrial Zone having +6 adjacency bonus and City A is also in range of a Nuclear Power Plant of City B, which gives +4 {{Production6}} and +3 {{Science6}}. In this case, the higher bonuses take precedence. Thus City A receives +6 {{Production6}} and +3 {{Science6}} from Power Plants while City B receives +4 {{Production6}} and +3 {{Science6}}. Bonuses from the two Power Plants do not stack unless [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) with the appropriate title is present.