# Industrial Era (Civ5)

The Industrial Era is an era that is based on the Industrial Revolution. It is the fifth era in the game.
Game Info.
The Industrial Era represents a turning point in the game for various reasons. First, the scientific momentum that the earlier development of [Education%20%28Civ5%29](Education) has produced finally matures, resulting in the big technological leap known as "industrialization." Besides the development of several very useful [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings), this leap is best represented by the revealing of three new strategic resources: , , and . At the same time, the parallel development of culture results in a renewed interest in the past of civilizations, revealing another, non-strategic resource: [Antiquity%20Site%20%28Civ5%29](Antiquity Sites). All of these novelties will spark another burst of expansion, as everyone tries to get access to these vital new resources.
Industrialization also brings the gradual social development to the threshold of modernity, and requires that your civilization adopts an [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](Ideology). This will shape the rest of the game for you, becoming a major influence on your way to [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory).
On the military front, the development of [Artillery%20%28Civ5%29](Artillery) brings a new era of siege warfare, allowing attacking armies to level [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) defenses from afar. Guns gradually invade all aspects of combat, replacing melee weapons and armor.
Other Properties.
The Order and Autocracy [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) trees are unlocked. In ', the Freedom social policy tree is also unlocked. (In ', all three of these trees have become [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](ideologies) and are not immediately available at the start of this era.)
When starting a game in the Industrial Era, you receive three [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers), two [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers), five [Rifleman%20%28Civ5%29](Riflemen), 400 , and 100 . [Venetian%20%28Civ5%29](Venice) gets two [Merchant%20of%20Venice%20%28Civ5%29](Merchants of Venice) instead of the two extra Settlers. When a city is founded it begins with 3 and contains a , , , , , , , , and (if on the coast) .