# Influence (Civ5)

Introduction.
 Influence is the main system of determining how a [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-State) feels towards you or a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Influence is determined in many ways. Hostility, such as demanding tribute, passing within the City-State's [Borders%20%28Civ5%29](borders) without permission, or declaring war on them, will lose you Influence points. However, kindness, such as gifting [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) or to City-States, completing missions they make, or planting spies in their city, will end up in you gaining Influence points. There are five stances a civilization can have with a City-State (in order from worst to best): Permanent War, Angry, Neutral, Friends, or Allies. There is also the status "Afraid", introduced in "".
Resting Points, Influence Points Deterioration, and Personalities.
Your relations with a City-State are determined according to an Influence scale, which goes from -60 to +X (where X is a currently unknown number). Because City-States tend to be forgetful, effects of actions that have altered relations will subside with time. This means that your Influence points with each City-State will change naturally each turn, drifting towards a Resting Point - either increasing if they were below this point, or (as usually happens) decreasing if they were above it.
The Resting Point of a City-State is the number of Influence points at which they cease changing by themselves, a "natural 0" point in your relations with them. While by default this is 0, this may be altered by the Religious Belief "Papal Primacy" (+15 Resting Point for all City-States following this religion), the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) [Aesthetics%20%28Civ5%29](Aesthetics) (in [vanilla](vanilla)) or [Consulates%20%28Civ5%29](Consulates) (+20 Resting Point for all City-States), or by pledging to protect a City-State (+5 Resting Point for the City-State you are pledging to protect). Pledging to Protect a City-State will announce to the world that if they want to get to the City-State, they're going to have to get through you. This acts as, more or less, a Defensive Pact between you and the City-State.
Additionally, each City-State has its own Personality. City-States' Personalities are predetermined for specific City-States, and will not change even if you enable Random Personalities. Personalities can be Neutral, Friendly, Hostile, or Irrational, and their main effect is the rate at which Influence points change naturally. Personality also affects what kinds of special quests they will give you.
Friends and Allies.
When you are either Friends or Allies with a City-State, you can get a variety of benefits. How beneficial these are based on whether you're Friends or Allies with them.
Afraid, Angry, and Permanent War.
If you don't feel like being very friendly to your local City-States, there are three other stances: Afraid, Angry, and Permanent War. They happen when your Influence with them drops into negative territory. Unlike their Friends and Allies counterparts, they will not provide benefits for your civilization unless you conquer them.
City-States are Afraid of you if you have a military force that outmatches theirs and you are close to them (within 8 tiles of the city). Afraid City-States can be asked for tribute and will always comply to giving anything you want. When asking for tribute, you can either demand from them or enslave one of their [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers). This is useful early-game when you have a strong military but are in need of money or Workers. However, do note that either of the previously mentioned actions will still cause you to lose Influence with them, and doing so will often cause them to change their stance from "Afraid" to "Angry." Stats regarding how scared a City-State is can be seen by mousing over the options in the "Ask for Tribute" menu. These stats include total military might, nearby [Military%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](military units), if tribute was recently demanded, and if the City-State has a pledge of protection with another civ.
City-States are  Angry at you if you have done something they strongly dislike. Common actions include trespassing on their borders, demanding tribute, or declaring war on them. Other, less common incidents, such as a civilization that is allied with a City-State declaring war on you, will cause them to get angry at you (or, in the last mentioned case, declare war on you). Angry City-States require more kind actions to please them. This is the worst state you can be with a City-State until you reach Permanent War (see below). A City-State is Angry at you when your Influence with them is negative. Note that War with a City-State is achieved with -60 Influence with the City-State.
Permanent War is the worst state you can be with a City-State. Permanent War is achieved when you have conquered, declared war on, or killed the units of so many City-States that most City-State will believe that any further peaceful coexistence is useless with you. In this case, you will enter Permanent War with most, if not all, City-States. As the name suggests, this is a form of war with a City-State where peace cannot be established. This means you will forever be at war with the City-State(s) - at least, until you conquer them.
Neutral.
When a City-State is  Neutral, nothing major has happened in your relationship that has caused them to like or dislike you. Neutral City-States provide nothing good or bad to you. A City-State is Neutral when your Influence with them is 0-29.