# Information Era (Civ5)

The Information Era is a new era introduced in "". It represents present days, with its computer-based society and high-tech machines. It is the final era in the game.
Game Info.
With the development of computers and computer networks the world enters an era of new possibilities and challenges. Lightning-fast technological development continues, inventing more high-tech (such as the [Giant%20Death%20Robot%20%28Civ5%29](Giant Death Robot)), punctual (such as the [Guided%20Missile%20%28Civ5%29](Guided Missile)) and increasingly mobile and deadly weapons, with which a player seeking a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory) could gain the edge needed to complete his or her conquest and win the game.
However, a connected world presents unique opportunities to non-violent players as well: their Diplomats may now enhance the influence of players in the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ5%29](United Nations), allowing them to win the World Leader vote and achieve [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory); while [The%20Internet%20%28Civ5%29](The Internet) allows an explosive spread of touristic influence for players pursuing [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory). 
Finally, the space race begins for players pursuing a [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](science victory). The ultimate struggle to conquer space offers the next frontier for competition. Mankind's future awaits in the stars...
Other Properties.
When starting a game in the Information Era, you receive three [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers), three [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers), five [Marine%20%28Civ5%29](Marines), 600 , and 400 . [Venetian%20%28Civ5%29](Venice) gets three [Merchant%20of%20Venice%20%28Civ5%29](Merchants of Venice) instead of the Settlers. When a city is founded it begins with 5 and contains a , , , , , , , , , , and (if on the coast) .