# Inquisitor (Civ6)

The Inquisitor is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](religious unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can only be purchased with in a that has a majority and a with a (or one of its replacements).
You can only create Inquisitors if you have founded a religion and had an [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostle) use the Launch Inquisition ability on a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site).
Strategy.
Inquisitors are the defenders of the faith, specializing in removing competing religions from your cities as well as waging inside your territory. They start with 3 charges of Remove Heresy (4 when playing as ). Using one charge in a tile removes all religions (or 75% of all religions in "") from that city, besides your own. 
Inquisitors can also initiate Theological Combat. They receive +50% Religious Strength if battling in friendly territory, which (alongside the fact that they are quite cheap) makes them ideal for withstanding massive attack waves of enemy Apostles. Note, however, that the Inquisitor's Religious Strength is the lowest of all religious units, which makes them practically useless outside your territory! So, avoid straying outside your territory with Inquisitors, where the bonus won't be active - they will surely die if attacked there, which will turn them into a liability instead of an asset.
The mechanics of Religion now permit that a particular Religion is practically eliminated from the game by enemy religious agents converting all of its cities with a Holy Site. This makes it impossible for religious units of this religion to be purchased, and from that moment on, it's only a matter of time until this religion is completely wiped out. That's why it is always a good idea to have an Inquisitor or two stashed away when facing strong religious opponents, ready to convert back at least the Holy City so that you can start purchasing religious units again.