# International Space Station (Civ5)

Introduction.
The International Space Station is a world wonder in the "" expansion pack. Unlike other wonders, the International Space Station can only be acquired through the [International%20Project%20%28Civ5%29](International Project) from the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress), and the process follows the same specifics as the other International Projects.
Building the Space Station.
The International Space Station Project begins via resolution at the World Congress, very similar to the [World%27s%20Fair%20%28Civ5%29](World's Fair). In order for the Project to become possible, at least one [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) needs to discover the [Satellites%20%28Civ5%29](Satellites) [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology). Once underway, civilizations can contribute towards its completion by selecting it in the city production list. They can build parts for the space station, train some of its crew, and ultimately organize its construction in space and house its ground control facility. When complete, civilizations receive bonuses based on how much they contributed.
The minimum requirement for each reward assumes the game is being played in standard settings (Standard [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) with 8 civilizations and Standard game [Speed%20%28Civ5%29](speed)).
Strategy.
This is the last International Project, available close to the end of the game. This means that very often this project may not be completed, either because civilizations are too busy trying to hamper each other's progress through the World Congress to propose the necessary Resolution, or because someone simply achieves victory before the project is complete.
If it "does" get completed, though, the International Space Station becomes the ultimate weapon towards achieving a [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](science victory), boosting tech progress in a variety of ways. Unlike other Projects, the winner's prize is a "permanent" world wonder, meaning that whoever owns it will reap the benefits for the rest of the game. The very nature of the bonuses most benefits civilizations with lots of s - those who also produce lots of [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great People). In addition, the winner gets an immediate boost in tech research, both by a one-time effect and by getting a free [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Scientist). This means that whoever wins the first place will become a major contender for science victory - if you're not this lucky individual, beware!
You can get the current world completion status by holding your mouse over the current build of a city working on the International Space Station. It is updated as each civilization has its turn, which can give you an idea of who is contributing and how much. That includes you; by looking at the % before your next turn starts and after, you can see how much of the total % you are contributing to its completion.