# Interceptor (CTP2)

The Interceptor is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20CTP2](unit) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The Interceptor is a ruthlessly efficient assault aircraft, capable of traveling great distances in a single turn. It will actively defend against any air unit within its range. Like its predecessor the [Fighter%20%28CTP2%29](Fighter), the Interceptor must refuel by ending its turn at a [City%20%28CTP2%29](City), [Airbase%20%28CTP2%29](Airbase) or [Aircraft%20Carrier%20%28CTP2%29](Aircraft Carrier).
Great Library entry.
Although both the Axis and the Allies employed fighter aircraft equipped with jet engines in World War II, it was too late to significantly impact the outcome of the war. After 1945, the major world powers endeavored to create a new class of fighter aircraft. Called interceptors, these craft were designed, like fighters, to seek out and destroy enemy aircraft. Developments in supersonic jet technology gave rise to a powerful new class of aircraft capable of flying 2 to 3 times as fast as the speed of sound. The U.S. F-15 Strike Eagle and the Soviet MiG-25 Foxbat were among the most advanced jet fighters of the 1960s, 70s and 80s. They had fast rates of climb, excellent maneuverability and a formidable arsenal of air-to-air missiles.
The interceptor's extreme speeds and operational altitudes made targeting, striking and destroying other aircraft very complicated, and required an array of advanced electronic, navigational and computational systems. Single-seated interceptors from the 1980s weighed as much as, and were more complicated to operate than, World War II-era multi-engine bombers. As interceptor technology advanced, the search and attack functions became increasing automated, almost reducing the pilot's role in combat to monitoring the operation of the equipment. Modern jet-powered interceptors soon reached a point where their performance capabilities exceeded the human pilots' abilities to control it.