# Into the Renaissance (Civ5)

Into the Renaissance is a [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario) in "". The scenario is based on religion in medieval times in which you must "Grow your medieval kingdom into one of the great nations of Renaissance [Europe](Europe), fending off outside invasions from the Mongols and the Ottoman Turks and fighting the religious wars of the Crusades and Reformation!"
Intro.
Scenario Description.
The Great Schism has divided the Christian church into east and west. All attempts to reconcile Byzantium and Rome have failed. Meanwhile, the Islamic armies of the Great Turk threaten Constantinople with capture. In response, Pope Urban II issues a call for a crusade to bolster the Byzantines and liberate the Holy Land. The stage is set for a dramatic battle between the faiths. With such bloodshed on the horizon, will you be able to preserve civilization as we know it and lead the world into the glory of the Renaissance?
Victory Conditions.
Victory is awarded based on score after 200 turns. Earn special scenario VP as follows:
Special Rules.
Three religions are established before the game starts: Catholicism (Holy City is Vatican City), Orthodoxy (Holy City is Constantinople) and Islam (Holy City is Mecca). Control your Holy City (or Jerusalem) to gain the benefits of the Founder beliefs for your religion
Gameplay.
There are twelve playable civilizations in this scenario: the [Almohad%20%28Civ5%29](Almohads), [Austrian%20%28Civ5%29](Austria), the [Ayyubid%20%28Civ5%29](Ayyubids), [Byzantine%20%28Civ5%29](Byzantium), the [Celtic%20%28Civ5%29](Celts), [English%20%28Civ5%29](England), [French%20%28Civ5%29](France), the [Dutch%20%28Civ5%29](Netherlands), [Russian%20%28Civ5%29](Russia), [Spanish%20%28Civ5%29](Spain), [Swedish%20%28Civ5%29](Sweden), and the [Turkish%20%28Civ5%29](Turks). In addition, [Mongolian%20%28Civ5%29](Mongolia) appears as a non-playable civilization.
There are three playable world religions in the scenario: [Catholicism%20%28Civ5%29](Roman Catholicism), [Eastern%20Orthodoxy%20%28Civ5%29](Eastern Orthodoxy), and [Islam%20%28Civ5%29](Islam), whose holy cities are [Vatican%20City%20%28Civ5%29](Vatican City), [Constantinople](Constantinople), and [Mecca%20%28Civ5%29](Mecca), respectively. Austria, the Celts, England, France, the Netherlands, Spain, and Sweden are all Catholic, while Byzantium and Russia are Orthodox, and the Almohads, Ayyubids, and Turks are all Islamic. Your relationships with other civs can be helped or hindered depending on whether or not that civilization follows your religion. In addition, a fourth religion, [Protestantism%20%28Civ5%29](Protestantism), will be founded in the of [Wittenberg%20%28Civ5%29](Wittenberg) late in the game and will begin to deal massive damage in particular to the Catholic civilization's religion. All religions enter the game fully enhanced.
The winner of the scenario is whichever civilization has the most victory points after 200 turns. Apart from attaining victory points normally, there are also several methods to acquire additional points. Civilizations can gain victory points by controlling holy cities. [Jerusalem%20%28Civ5%29](Jerusalem) also counts as a Holy City in this sense, even though there is no religion based in it. All of the holy cities exist as s, except Constantinople, the capital of Byzantium, which gives the Byzantines an advantage.
In addition, a wonder specific to this scenario, [St.%20Peter%27s%20Basilica%20%28Civ5%29](St. Peter's Basilica), will be immediately built in Vatican City. Upon the completion of construction, a 50-turn timer begins to count down to a vote for the Holy Roman Emperor, which is similar to the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ5%29](United Nations) vote, except winning the vote does not win the game, but rather provides victory points, and the Holy Roman Emperor vote repeats every 25 turns. The possession of St. Peter's Basilica provides an additional vote for the owner. This means that Vatican City will provide two votes for its allies. If the owner is a civ (by capturing Vatican City or acquiring it through Diplomatic Marriage as Austria), the extra vote automatically gives that vote to its owner.
Despite being a vote for the Holy Roman Emperor, civilizations and s do not actually need to be Catholic to vote, be voted for, or to win the Holy Roman Emperor title. This means that it is even possible for the Mongols to win Holy Roman Emperor (though this is incredibly unlikely, due to their extremely aggressive attitude towards civs and s), as well as any of the three Islamic civilizations or the two Orthodox ones.
Additional victory points can be acquired by sending [Caravel%20%28Civ5%29](Caravels) to the New World (in the same manner as sending Caravels to China in the [Conquest%20of%20the%20New%20World%20%28Civ5%29](Conquest of the New World) scenario) or through Holy War, in which the player has to capture cities of competing religions. The amount of victory points acquired through this method is determined by the population of said city.
Strategy.
Walkthroughs for every civilization except Sweden, which have been tested on Deity [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ5%29](difficulty) and on the Historical [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map), are available online. Below are some key strategy points gathered from each: