# Iron Working (Civ6)

Iron Working is a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building a [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mine) on an [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource).
Strategy.
After the development of bronze it was only a matter of time for mankind to realize that it needs an easy-to-find, easy-to-work-with metal on which to base its technology. Iron is the logical choice - somewhat weaker than bronze, it is nevertheless a single metal and not an alloy, and it is found in abundance.
And so a new generation of iron weapons rises, used by a new warrior: the [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman). Building upon the experience of earlier metal working, the blacksmiths are able to make these new weapons much deadlier than previous ones.
Iron Working should be a beeline target for all [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) bent on early conquest. After their logical choice of researching [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining) and [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working), it takes just one more step to get a next-generation frontline warrior and start their conquest. Furthermore, Iron Working is required to continue to [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery), another very important tech of the early [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era).
However, if your civ is neither particularly warlike nor threatened by a powerful neighbor, you have little reason to rush Iron Working. Bronze Working already does most of the job for early military development (including revealing ), and [Horseback%20Riding%20%28Civ6%29](Horseback Riding) will give you access to just as strong a unit as the Swordsman while also unlocking many more useful techs of the Classical Era. Leave Iron Working for later, when you'll need to research Machinery.
Forget all of this, however, and make Iron Working your number one priority if playing as the [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gauls). Thanks to their love of Mines, they will likely get the for it very quickly, and what's more, their returns from it are massive! This civ couldn't care less about the Swordsman, whose niche the [Gaesatae%20%28Civ6%29](Gaesatae) does a fine job of filling cheaply, but this technology unlocks a crucial piece of the Gallic arsenal: the [Oppidum%20%28Civ6%29](Oppidum). This allows them to defend themselves while getting a huge head start on , and also unlocks the [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship) technology to boost their plentiful Mines, so pick it up as soon as possible.