# Irrigation (Civ6)

Irrigation is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building a [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farm) on any [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus](bonus resource).
Strategy.
Irrigation is the first agricultural technology beyond basic farming. With it, your [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) learns how to use water to grow crops, and how to manipulate large quantities of water in general. The tech allows your civilization to cultivate more advanced crops via the [Plantation%20%28Civ6%29](Plantation) [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement). It also allows harvesting of and clearing of [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marshes).
Irrigation is important mainly because the Plantation it unlocks is a major booster in the beginning of the game and allows access to a wealth of [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](luxury resources), so sooner or later you will need to research it. However, the Plantation can only be built on specific luxuries, and if you don't have them near your starting location you can delay researching Irrigation until you expand into new areas. It is a leaf tech, so you won't need it to continue further down the tech tree; if you don't have immediate use for it you shouldn't waste your research time.
The other reasons for researching Irrigation sooner can be if you want an early [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) (the [Hanging%20Gardens%20%28Civ6%29](Hanging Gardens) aren't as coveted by the [AI](AI) as, say, [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge), and their location requirements are easily met), or if you start in a particularly swampy area and you need to clean some space for [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts) and wonders. Otherwise, go for more important late-Ancient Era techs, such as [Writing%20%28Civ6%29](Writing) or [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working).
Note that in order to activate the for this tech you need to build a Farm on a resource (, , or with the [Maya%20and%20Gran%20Colombia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Maya and Gran Colombia Pack)) - a Farm built on plain land won't do.