# Janissary (Civ6)

The Janissary is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) of the [Ottoman%20%28Civ6%29](Ottoman) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) (when led by [Suleiman%20%28Civ6%29](Suleiman (Kanuni))) in "". It replaces the [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman) and requires 10 to train.
Strategy.
The Janissary is one of the most fearsome unique melee units in the game, thanks to its cheap cost, good Combat Strength and free starting .
The most outstanding feature of this unit is its appealing price tag. Standing at only half the cost of a normal [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman), the Janissary is the cheapest unique unit in the game, if you only consider the cost ratio between the unit itself and the standard counterpart it replaces, similar to how the [Grand%20Bazaar%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Bazaar) is also the cheapest [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique building) in the game. This 50% discount makes the Janissary so cheap that it becomes an anomaly, when it actually costs more to train a [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms), the predecessor, than a Janissary. Therefore, for Suleiman, you should never train Men-At-Arms to take full advantage of your unique unit (more on this down below). Secondly, despite its cheap cost, the Janissary even has a Combat Strength edge over the Musketman, and a free when trained. On average, 5 Combat Strength difference results in 6-7 extra damage per attack.
However, all of this power comes at a cost. Similar to training Settlers, any city founded by the Ottomans will lose 1 Population whenever they train a Janissary. This can be quite detrimental, but bypassing it is simple. There are two major options to minimize your losses when you want to train this unit: