# Japanese (Civ5)

The Japanese people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The Japanese are purely a military civilization. Both their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) and their two [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) contribute to a great fighting force, which has the ability to deliver enormous amounts of damage even when their [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) aren't at full health. Also, their two unique units appear well spaced in time, allowing them to keep an edge at two principal moments in the game: in the beginning of the middle-game expansion ([Samurai%20%28Civ5%29](Samurai)), and in the late game ([Zero%20%28Civ5%29](Zero)), when aggressive civilizations need to continue expanding on their way to a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory). Obviously, this type of [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) is best suited for the Japanese.
In the [Fall%202013%20patch%20%28Civ5%29](Fall 2013 patch), the Japanese unique ability has been updated to generate from [Fishing%20Boats%20%28Civ5%29](Fishing Boats) and [Atoll%20%28Civ5%29](Atolls). This emphasizes the seafaring nature of the civilization, giving it an additional bonus useful outside of military situations. This is particularly useful towards [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory) provided that Japan has enough of those tiles to work as output from tiles can be used to generate more via [Hotel%20%28Civ5%29](Hotels) or [Airport%20%28Civ5%29](Airports), and can aid [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](scientific victory) and [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory) to a small degree, but only indirectly. Japan can use Samurai in times of peace to build Fishing Boats, allowing its primarily military bonus to have some civil uses.
While focusing on another victory condition tends to lead to a military decline, the Japanese can remain competitive throughout the game and play defensively thanks to their unique ability. Finally, the bonus from Fishing Boats and Atolls also helps them to become a culturally strong nation, capable of defending against foreign cultural influence.
It is important to note that the [Elite%20Forces%20%28Civ5%29](Elite Forces) tenet of the [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29%23Autocracy](Autocracy ideology) does not benefit wounded Japanese units, presumably because the game treats the wounded Japanese units as if they weren't injured in the first place. In addition, the Samurai cannot build [Offshore%20Platform%20%28Civ5%29](Offshore Platforms), so Japan still requires [Work%20Boat%20%28Civ5%29](Work Boats) to work sources along the [Coast%20%28Civ5%29](coast).