# Japanese (Civ6)

The Japanese people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Hojo%20Tokimune%20%28Civ6%29](Hojo Tokimune), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are white and dark red; and [Tokugawa%20%28Civ6%29](Tokugawa), under whom their default colors are reversed.
The Japanese [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Meiji Restoration, which allows to receive a standard adjacency bonus from being next to one another, instead of minor. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Samurai%20%28Civ6%29](Samurai) (which replaces the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms)), and their unique [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) is the [Electronics%20Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Electronics Factory) (which replaces the [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 3 towards [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast)"
The Japanese are the undisputed experts at building compact clusters of cities to maximize the number of specialty s adjacent to one another. The epitome of a versatile civilization, Japan can adapt quickly throughout the game, depending on their starting location and opponents, to select the smoothest path to Victory.
Meiji Restoration.
This is the defining ability of Japan that bestows on them an unmatched level of flexibility. For new players, this does not sound like much, but this simple bonus is one of the strongest ones in the game. 
There are six types of s that can gain adjacency bonuses in the game: [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus), [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square), [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub), [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor), [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) and [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site). These s usually gain +1 bonus for every two adjacent districts, but now they will receive +1 bonus per adjacent district instead. With good [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) planning, this allows you to create massive clusters between nearby cities that feed each other adjacency bonuses. This bonus is actually better than just doubling the regular adjacency bonuses. For example, a Campus adjacent to 3 other s will gain only 1 more , because every 0.5 adjacency bonus will get rounded down if the number is odd, a Japanese Campus in this situation will receive 3 . For this reason, while other civilizations can be a little haphazard in their placement of s, effective play as Japan requires a very good knowledge of available districts and future planning. This ability pairs very well with policy cards that double adjacency bonuses or boost buildings' yields by 50% if the s they are in have high starting adjacency. This makes Japan a better choice for players who are more accustomed to the rules of placement, as opposed to brand new players.
"Holy Site".
Combined with Hojo's leader ability, Japan has a solid edge in founding a Religion, and the fact that you can get more out of each [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) if you manage to build them close to one another means Japan is decent at a Religious Victory. The main challenge most religious civilizations meet when pursuing a Religious Victory is that you have to make Holy Sites your main , which will take up a slot in every city. Holy Sites are not necessarily the best to be built en masse, and is more meaningful if it can get translated to something else, other than just religious units. However, since Japan is so versatile, you can easily transition to other paths if a Religious Victory is out of reach. As mentioned above, is a much better yield if it is played as a supporting factor to other Victory paths, like to be used to buy units if you have the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel) or to buy [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands), [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists) and when pursuing a Cultural Victory. Purely religious Japan is decent, but if there are civilizations who can generate a massive amount of much more reliably in the game, like [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia) or [Ethiopian%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia), it is wise to pick another path and build just enough Holy Sites to support that path.
Under Tokugawa, Holy Site is not an important district, since Tokugawa is strictly a scientific leader, and while is always welcome, it pales in importance compared to , and . Considering that each Japanese city under Tokugawa needs to prioritize Campus, Theater Square, Industrial Zone and Commercial Hub, it is just difficult to slip Holy Site into the build order. 
Work Ethic works really well with Japan as the Follower Belief, since Japanese Holy Sites can earn high adjacency bonuses, the parent cities will gain a lot of very early into the game. Otherwise, Jesuit Education is also an incredible Follower Belief for both Japanese leaders, since Tokugawa loves Campuses and Hojo loves Theater Squares. However, Hojo can use this belief better since he is more likely to invest in generation needed to purchase these buildings. 
"Campus".
 is always crucial, especially under Tokugawa, since he is a lot less versatile than Hojo. Combined with the extra from his internal s, Tokugawa has almost no issues competing with other pure scientific civilizations.
Under Hojo, you may not need to build Campuses everywhere, unless you are going for a scientific victory. A few Campuses are necessary to keep your technology competitive, however. Since you get a 50% bonus when building Theater Squares and Holy Sites. you can make them your main s to build, and then catch up in later by unlocking [Globalization%20%28Civ6%29](Globalization) and [International%20Space%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](International Space Agency).
Among the six s that can gain adjacency bonuses, the one that is the easiest to earn high bonuses on is the Campus, since there are 4 terrain types and features ([Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest), [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains), [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs) and [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures)) that give the Campus extra , so it is not totally necessary to situate Campuses in the middle of a cluster if you can find somewhere else better.
"Theater Square".
Considering how tough it is to earn high starting bonuses for [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), a little bit extra for each Theater Square built is always welcome, especially as Hojo, since you can build them in half the time. Also, if you do not manage to earn any Great Works, the output of the buildings inside the Theater Square can be underwhelming, so this is your prime candidate to put in the middle of a cluster. This can be one of your core s to build as well, depending on which Victory you have in mind. For a Cultural Victory, for instance, this will obviously be your number one . This can also be a high-priority if you go for a Religious Victory, side by side with your Holy Sites, since transitioning from a Religious Victory to a Cultural Victory is a lot smoother than to a Scientific Victory. Although new players often forgo this , generation is absolutely crucial for a Scientific Victory as well, so in that case, only the Campus has a higher priority, and Theater Squares should still be second most important type of .
For Tokugawa, he cares about more than the aspect of the Theater Square, since he is strictly scientific. After constructing Campus, the Aqueduct + Industrial Zone combo and Commercial Hub, the next Tokugawa should go for is Theater Square. At this point, all your cities have strong to quickly build Theater Squares and their expensive buildings, and also have enough s to give these Theater Squares a meaningful starting adjacency bonus, resulting from Meiji Restoration. It is not necessary to prioritize Theater Squares more than that, focus on building other pieces of infrastructure first, then divert your attention to Theater Squares.
"Industrial Zone".
In vanilla and "Rise and Fall", it may be difficult on occasion to choose whether adjacency bonuses from s or adjacency bonuses from [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) and [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries) are superior, if those improvements are away from your main setup. However, you can also use this to your advantage by considering the Industrial Zone with lower priority than other s, not necessarily because you don't need , but because you can just earn very high starting bonus on Industrial Zones by putting them in the middle of a hilly area.
In , however, the new major adjacency bonuses from [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts), [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals) and [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams) stack with this ability, giving Industrial Zones next to even one of these s an astounding +3 adjacency bonus! You should try to flank each Industrial Zone with both an Aqueduct and a Dam whenever possible, and run the [Craftsmen%20%28Civ6%29](Craftsmen) policy card as soon as it is unlocked. Since is the king of all the yields, the Industrial Zone should be at the heart of every major complex that you construct. For a detailed guide on city planning surrounding the Industrial Zone, head [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here).
This is also the where your unique building is situated; however, as explained in great details below, the Electronics Factory is not, by any means, a strong unique building that you need to go out of your way to accommodate. Think of and the Industrial Zone this way: high is undoubtedly amazing, and the feeling when everything is completed in just a few turns is really satisfying, but on the other hand, not all cities need to be built to maximize . The major difference between "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" and "Civilization VI" is that "Civilization V" is extremely punishing towards un-productive cities, as they take their toll on your , , , your empire's policy adoption and technological advancements. In "Civilization VI", you can have as many satellite cities as your heart contents, as long as you find space to put them. These cities can slowly build up their infrastructure, which will in turn generate , , and ; these yields may be small but they add up and still can contribute to the progress of the empire overall. There is very little punishment going ultra-wide in "Civilization VI" for this one reason: in "Civilization VI", techs and civics don't cost more per city but their counterparts did back in "Civilization V". Building Industrial Zones is a long-term investment: you put in to slowly receive back, you want that for your core cities where you will complete space projects for a Scientific Victory or wonders for a Cultural Victory; your satellite cities don't need to produce much, they can just sit there to generate yields passively. The bottom line is: Don't go overboard with Industrial Zones.
Regarding your core (productive) cities, the main hub should have [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) with the [Vertical%20Integration%20%28Civ6%29](Vertical Integration) promotion. This city should pick the Coal Power Plant to maximize its output. Every other city within 6 tiles of this city should have either an [Oil%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Oil Power Plant) or a [Nuclear%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Power Plant) to supply extra to the main city. Remember that the AoE bonus from multiple [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factories) and Power Plants do not stack except for one city with Vertical Integration-promoted Magnus, so it just comes full circle back to the question why building Industrial Zones in every city mindlessly is a waste of . Also, note that the from the [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant) is localized, it grants a lot of but no AoE to nearby cities (it still supplies though). Therefore, if you have an Industrial Zone that is not within range of the main "Magnus city", it is best to build a Coal Power Plant there, thanks to the high adjacency bonus Japanese Industrial Zones often have.
"Commercial Hub/Harbor".
Despite Hojo's bonuses towards the navy and naval combat, if maximizing adjacency bonuses is the number one goal, [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) are clearly the better choice. Normally, for other civilizations, the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) is generally better, thanks to the superior effects of its buildings, and has a much easier time gaining high adjacency bonuses. However, since the Japanese ability encourages building cities and in compact clusters, Harbors do not provide a lot of adjacency bonuses to other in-land . On the other hand, you can dedicate one coastal city on the peripheral of your empire to be the main naval hub with a Harbor to train naval units with boosted experience gain.
Under Tokugawa, the power of s is the backbone of the Japanese empire, so either a Commercial Hub or a Harbor is required in every city. At the beginning, prioritize these s only after Campuses, so that you have a good flow of , , , and in your empire. Later on, especially starting from Renaissance and Industrial, you can switch to build Industrial Zones/Aqueducts first, so that the cities are off to a good start, before starting on Commercial Hubs or Harbors.
Although not very useful in terms of training naval units, a Harbor built inside a one-tile [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) is a good substitute for a Commercial Hub. As mentioned above, the Harbor's buildings have far stronger effects than the Commercial Hub's buildings, but Japan might prefer Commercial Hubs more because Commercial Hubs can be placed more easily in the middle of a cluster while Harbors cannot. However, Harbors that are built inside a one-tile Lake eliminate this conundrum completely, allowing those Harbors to be in the heart of your empire instead of on the peripheral.
"Other types of districts".
There is not much to talk about these s except for the fact that since they cannot earn adjacency bonuses, they should only be on the outskirt of any formation. The only exception to this is the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza). Normally, this gives a +1.5 bonus to adjacent s, which would be rounded down to 1 if there is no other nearby. The Japanese Government Plaza gives a major bonus to all adjacent s, thus it should be surrounded by other s, even though it itself cannot earn any bonus.
Divine Wind (Hojo Tokimune).
"Encampments, Theater Squares and Holy Sites are built in half the time".
The first and more reliable aspect of this ability is that [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments), [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) and [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) can be built in half the time, as if they are unique s. Just a quick note, Hojo does not receive a modifier when building these s, but they become 50% cheaper than normal. It can be stacked multiplicatively with the [District%20%28Civ6%29%23District%20discount%20mechanics](discount mechanic) to give you a roughly 70% discount. This has great synergy with Meiji Restoration, at least for the latter two, even more so if you are going for a Cultural Victory, and to a lesser extent, a Religious Victory. Encampments are better built at the edge of your empire to fully benefit from the bombardment they provide, or at the edge of a complex to provide bonuses to other s.
Cheap Holy Sites give you a decent shot at competing for a Religion, as long as it is prioritized. Later in the game, they can be decent at generating to aid a Cultural Victory. The reason Japan is not as good at a Religious Victory as a Cultural Victory is that they cannot generate in any way other than from their Holy Sites. Therefore, in order to win a Religious Victory, Japan either has to combine it with Domination, or the map has to be small enough, because at some points, from Holy Sites cannot be enough for the ever-increasing cost of [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles) and [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries).
Cheap Theater Squares are a lot better. A good flow can unlock policy cards quickly, which can help tremendously with all Victory types. This is especially pronounced in a Cultural game, since satellite cities where is not the best can still quickly erect Theater Squares to generate and later be the place to store [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works). In the early game, it helps you unlock [Feudal%20Contract%20%28Civ6%29](Feudal Contract) from [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) a bit faster, helping you train Samurai, if you plan to be aggressive with your neighbors.
Encampments matter the least, even for a Domination game, as you generally don't want to build this everywhere. One early Encampment can be useful if you want a around the same time as your Samurai is unlocked. Stacking [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy) Combat Strength bonus and a on top of the Samurai's already high Combat Strength can be quite fearsome, especially against coastal cities, since the Samurai will then receive an additional +5 Combat Strength from the second aspect of this ability.
"Extra Combat Strength when fighting on the coastline".
The second part of Divine Wind is a significant combat bonus to units fighting on coastal, Coast and Lake tiles. The in-game description is partially wrong: this ability applies to all land and naval units when they fight in these 3 types of terrain, which means a land ranged unit can receive the Combat Strength if it attacks a unit on a Coast or a Lake tile, a naval ranged unit receive Combat Strength when attacking a unit standing on a coastal tile, etc. This bonus is the same number that [American%20%28Civ6%29](America) receives, but much harder to properly utilize. In the early game, it greatly helps against [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](barbarians) as well as any naval combat Japan might find themselves in. Later, it's more of a situational buff. Remember, similar to every other abilities which give extra Combat Strength based on terrains, the terrain of the battle is the tile of the defender, not attacker. However, as mentioned above, naval units still benefit when fighting both in shallow water and on coastal tiles, which means a naval unit does receive extra Combat Strength when attacking a city on the coastline, making it easier for Hojo to launch a naval invasion, especially when the chosen Government is Oligarchy (or its Legacy card is being run). Also, it is considerably harder to launch a naval invasion against Hojo, since a line of defending land units on the coast can block any enemy from disembarking successfully while the Japanese navy can clear out any enemy ship near their shores.
Two different [Pantheons%20%28Civ6%29](religious pantheons) that mesh particularly well with Divine Wind are [God%20of%20War%20%28Civ6%29](God of War) and [God%20of%20the%20Sea%20%28Civ6%29](God of the Sea). [Divine%20Spark%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Spark) is another useful one, especially for those players who wish to take the Japanese civilization in a less aggressive direction.
This bonus also applies to religious units. Your Apostles and Missionaries will be slightly stronger when engaging in theological combat along the coastline. This bonus cannot be used effectively on offense, since your units most likely will have to travel further inland to spread your Religion, so it is useful on defense only, especially on water maps. With [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha) and his [Laying%20On%20Of%20Hands%20%28Civ6%29](Laying On Of Hands) promotion, you can form an immortal defensive line against unwanted religious invasions.
"Immunity to damage from Hurricanes".
In "Gathering Storm", Hojo offers all Japanese units, s, and improvements protection from Hurricanes, also, Japanese enemies will receive extra damage from Hurricanes when inside Japanese territories. This is what's often called a "thematic bonus," as it provides some historical flavors to the leader and has absolutely no bearing on the game. Hurricanes are the least damaging type of disasters, as they spawn on Ocean tiles and their travel paths are never guaranteed to hit any coastal city. The defensive implication of this aspect where a Hurricane coincidentally hits the coast of Japan (which, again, it rarely does) at the precise moment when they get invaded will almost never happen.
Bakuhan (Tokugawa).
"Bonuses to domestic Trade Routes per district at the destination".
Make no mistakes, this is the only meaningful part in Tokugawa's ability, which makes him a leader with quite a strong focus and a bonus that is easy to handle. To sum it up in a few words, as Tokugawa, send internal s only, and that is pretty much everything you need to know about him.
Rather than granting his civilization a bonus to constructing s as Hojo Tokimune does, Tokugawa bestows an outstanding bonus on internal s based on the number of specialty s at the destination, on top of the regular and . A full list of types of yields from domestic and international s can be found [Trade%20Route%20%28Civ6%29%23Trade%20yields%20based%20on%20districts](here).
Domestic s, without any unique bonuses, always grant only and . This is good for growing small cities, especially when you send them to your , the city most likely to contain a lot of s. However, it doesn't grant those nice empire-wide currencies that you can get from international trade. Generally, the better option is to send s from your small cities to your larger cities, and then from your larger cities to foreign cities. But Japan under Tokugawa doesn't have to choose at all.
For each in a city where Tokugawa sends a domestic , that receives +2 and +1 each of and . This means that Tokugawa is massively rewarded for focusing on domestic trade and building a few huge cities that receive s from all his smaller cities. Each city you build should prioritize a [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) and a [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market) (or [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) and [Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Lighthouse)) so they can trade with a high- city right away for exceptional yields. If your has 13 Population, and it's built all the available s (which, as Japan, it should have), s can look like +8 and +4 each of , , and , making what would be a very worthy [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era) international available from as early as the late [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), in all of your cities!
While most bonuses to s only apply to international ones, there are certain bonuses that also apply to internal s and are worth considering:
"Cities within 6 tiles of the Capital are 100% Loyal and get +1 Tourism per district with Flight".
This is a bonus that will never hurt, but never really save you either. The and the tiles immediately surrounding it are the zone where your civilization exerts the most [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) pressure, so if Loyalty is an actual concern regarding cities within 6 tiles of your , you either settled in the wrong place or have much worse things to worry about (i.e., [Eleanor%20of%20Aquitaine%20%28Civ6%29](Eleanor) is about to conquer you). Besides, Tokugawa is rewarded for going wide, since the more cities he settles, the more he can benefit from sending s to the .
The from s, meanwhile, is simply not enough to get anything done. The late game of [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory) is influenced the most by modifiers (read more [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29%23Example](here)), and Tokugawa has to choose between forsaking the best parts of his ability or rejecting some of the most powerful of these modifiers, which only work when you send international s. This will always hurt him more than these random speed bumps of can help him.
"-25% yields and Tourism from international Trade Routes".
The other side of the coin, Tokugawa receives significantly diminished yields from international s. Considering how amazing his domestic s are, you should basically never send a outside of your empire, save perhaps to complete a short [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) quest. Your tempo relies so much on your s that international ones will really slow you down.
It is worth noting that the 25% penalty only cancels out the normal 25% bonus an international provides. Tokugawa will still receive the normal benefits from [Sarah%20Breedlove%20%28Civ6%29](Sarah Breedlove), [Melitta%20Bentz%20%28Civ6%29](Melitta Bentz), and [Online%20Communities%20%28Civ6%29](Online Communities). However, none of these bonuses are really worth obtaining when they would also force you to run international s to benefit from them.
Electronics Factory.
The Electronics Factory is not much of an improvement over the standard [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory). Unlike, for example, the [Tlachtli%20%28Civ6%29](Tlachtli) (also a pretty underwhelming unique building), the Electronics Factory actually comes into play often - not because it is so powerful and unique, but because the standard Factory and the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) are so important that they are impossible to ignore. What sets it apart from its standard counterpart, however, is negligible. In [vanilla](vanilla) and ', it receives only 1 more . In ', its base effect is even worse, as it is exactly the same as the Factory, only it gains an extra 5 when ed compared to the 3 of the Factory. This is the only case in the entire game where the bonuses of a piece of unique infrastructure are all conditional, meaning you do not receive any "uniqueness" right off the bat. (Incidentally, in "Gathering Storm", [English%20%28Civ6%29](England's) standard Factory is superior in to this unique building, as it provides 3 like normal and a whopping 7 additional when ed.)
Of course, when you unlock [Electricity%20%28Civ6%29](Electricity), each copy of this building provides +4 (another conditional bonus), but 4 per city is a small bonus at the end of the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era). Not to mention, the bonus is extra , something you most likely already have an abundance of or have no difficulty generating in the first place, which makes this bonus sound so much worse than it already does. In summary, this bonus gives you a yield you already have plenty of or have no trouble generating if you choose to (), at a point too late (late Modern Era) and in an amount too small (4 per city) to be largely impactful. And since this yield is bound to a unique building, it does not get translated into after you research [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight). Also, because the Electronics Factory's bonus doesn't stack with that of other Electronics Factories within 6 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), constructing this building in every city for its bonus alone is an inefficient use of time and resources. The only case in which this practice is justifiable is when a city has [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) and his [Vertical%20Integration%20%28Civ6%29](Vertical Integration) title, or is within a 6-tile radius of such a city.
All in all, you shouldn't put too much emphasis on this building. You will still have to use it, since the Industrial Zone is an important district and the Factory is crucial when the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) comes, but you do not exactly have an edge over anybody else with their regular copies of the Factory. The extra and should be considered a free bonus and not something you work towards.
Samurai.
The most outstanding statistic of the Samurai is its base Combat Strength of 48, rivalling that of a [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knight) (the only unit with significantly higher melee Combat Strength in this era is the [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Malian) [Mandekalu%20Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Mandekalu Cavalry), at 55). With that being said, a Samurai requires less than a Knight, and at a much lower cost (20 lower in vanilla and "", 60 lower in "Gathering Storm"). Basically, with the Samurai, you are making a trade of mobility for a better economic price, a trade that becomes a lot more reasonable in "Gathering Storm". Also, considering [Feudal%20Contract%20%28Civ6%29](Feudal Contract) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) is unlocked with [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism), an important [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic), while [Chivalry%20%28Civ6%29](Chivalry) is unlocked with [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right), a civic of a dead-end branch, unless you are playing religious Japan, your unique unit is a much better investment than Knights. An additional point that goes in favor of the Samurai over the Knights is that being a melee unit, it has access to the Tortoise , while Knights have a similar but weaker , making Samurai the superior unit to stand in the frontline against [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen), the bane of all Medieval conquerors.
After the April 2021 Update, the path to unlock Samurai is better than ever before. First, the Man-At-Arms was introduced, a new standard unit that the Samurai now replaces. No longer a standalone unit, Samurai can now be pre-built as Swordsmen and upgraded into if you have a good income. Even better yet, unlike [Berserker%20%28Civ6%29](Berserkers) and [Khevsur%20%28Civ6%29](Khevsurs), Samurai is now unlocked with the [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic), an all-important civic that you would want to beeline anyway. While this may not seem like much, remember that Japan has boosts toward under both leaders (thanks to the discount towards building [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) provided by [Hojo%20Tokimune%20%28Civ6%29](Hojo) and s of [Tokugawa%20%28Civ6%29](Tokugawa)), meaning that this unit is unlocked surprisingly early. This can allow Japan to quickly take over unsuspecting neighbors come the Medieval Era.
The bonus that allows the Samurai to suffer no penalty when damaged makes a comeback in "Civilization VI". If the new Combat Strength formula is taken into consideration, this is even more minor than its counterpart in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". Back in "Civilization V", Combat Strength modifiers are calculated in percentage, so a unit with 1 HP will suffer from a 50% damage reduction, so each 2 HP lost will cause roughly 1% damage reduction. In "Civilization VI", modifiers are calculated with flat Combat Strength, 10 HP lost only causes 1 Combat Strength reduction; therefore a unit with minimum health only suffers 10 Combat Strength penalty, roughly 20% of the Samurai's base Combat Strength, a lot less significant than what it used to be. Not to mention, this bonus, in both games, shines brighter the lower the HP of the unit is. When only 10 or 20 HP is lost, the extra Combat Strength it "gains" is barely noticeable, but at low health threshold, the amount of extra damage dealt can be somewhat meaningful. But here is the deal: you do not want to smash your low health units into the enemies just to prove a point that your Combat Strength is preserved, you try to run them away and heal them back up, so when the ability can shine the brightest is also the moment you want to use it the least. On defense, it makes the Samurai a bit sturdier, but on offense, the bonus is barely useful, as you only use a dying unit to attack when it is surrounded and a death next turn is guaranteed. A little bit more damage dealt with the unit's last gasp should not be the bonus to rely on.
Victory Types.
Under Hojo, Japan is the definition of a jack-of-all-trades civilization, as they can skew towards pretty much any victory type. Cheaper Holy Sites with higher adjacency gives more and supports a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory). The very same bonuses for and Theater Squares, plus extra from cheap Holy Sites aid a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory). The additional and combat bonuses enable a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory), since Samurai can be devastatingly powerful if you have enough in the early game to beeline for Feudalism. Finally, and additional adjacency bonuses aid a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory). The only Victory type Japan does not really have a lot going for them is Diplomatic Victory, although high and adjacencies from s do help you win [Competition%20%28Civ6%29](Competitions), but overall, you still lack means to generate compared to a true Diplomatic civilization.
Under Tokugawa, Japan is a shrinking violet on the world stage. The fact that they're so disincentivized to run international s, combined with Tokugawa's inability to build Theater Squares at the same lightning pace as Hojo, significantly diminish their Cultural prowess. Tokugawa's rapidly growing empire can help him leap ahead at just the right time to hit the window for Religious Victory, but he cannot build Holy Sites as fast as Hojo either, which hampers him in the race to a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet). In exchange, however, Japan gains massive bonuses to and from internal trade, which most incentivizes them to aim for a Science Victory. And, as always, any civilization that can output lots of and can produce advanced military units and compete at Domination too.
Counter Strategy.
Japan may seem hard to counter because of their powerful, generalist civ ability, but keep in mind that this ability does not give them very much immediately, as it is a snowballing bonus from extra district yields, and an unfocused one at that. If you spawn near them, you might be tempted to squeeze them with forward settling or even an early invasion before they can snowball, but Hojo's fast Encampment construction and extra coastal Combat Strength allows Japan under him to be deceptively strong at early defense. Tokugawa is a more tempting target for an early war, given his even heavier focus on infrastructure and a lack of the defensive bonuses Hojo has; [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) are good for this, as they can plunder their all-important s as well as any early district clusters. Just containing Tokugawa's expansion is often enough, though - his capacity will be limited by the number of cities he can get.
Also note that Japan has an incentive to avoid districts that don't have adjacency bonuses. This includes [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes) and [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Parks), so they may suffer a lack of - something you can help reinforce by not trading them luxuries and limiting their expansion to new continents.