# John Rockefeller (Civ6)

John Rockefeller is a [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchant) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Unique ability.
Grants 1 , a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](Strategic resource) (3 per turn in ""). Your s gain +2 for each Strategic resource improved by the destination city.
Strategy.
Ever since the changes made to strategic resource mechanics in "Gathering Storm," Rockefeller has been a phenomenal Great Merchant to aim for. His bonus of +3 every turn is excellent for supporting infrastructure when is hard for you to come by. Even if you should have an alternative source such as , Rockefeller can help you support powerful [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) units like the [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry) and the [Tank%20%28Civ6%29](Tank). His bonus to s is not as powerful as his primary ability, but it can still be useful. Look out for the [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) who are trying to go for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Scientific Victory) (you can have an idea which empire is going for which victory condition by having high Diplomatic Visibility levels on your opponents, or by simply checking the Victory tracking tab), since these are the ones that love Strategic resources (technically, [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) seekers love Strategic resources as well, but you probably won't be trading with them anytime soon considering their end goals). [English%20%28Civ6%29](England) and [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canada) should also often have cities with a lot of Strategic resource nodes, since their abilities encourage it. Whoever is the Suzerain of [Taruga%20%28Civ6%29](Taruga) may also try to focus on Strategic resources, but this isn't guaranteed, and also they will be focus on diversity more than quantity, which is not what you want. On the Four-Leaf Clover and Six-Armed Snowflake [Map%20%28Civ6%29](maps), civilizations that win the expansion race towards the center of the map are also prime candidates.