# Kampung (Civ6)

The Kampung is a unique {{Link6|tile improvement}} of the {{Link6|Indonesian}} [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) or [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) adjacent to sea [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) (except {{Shipwreck6}}s).
Strategy.
The Kampung is a rare tile improvement that is absolutely game changing to the civilizations. It is so powerful that it allows Indonesia to do what others consider to be an impossibility: settling and growing productive cities on tiny landmasses. Prime locations to look out for are the ones rich in sea resources. Ones with many concentrated spots of sea resources allow constructions of Kampungs with powerful yields, helping cities grow and become productive faster, while ones with spread out resources allow the constructions of many Kampungs, so these cities will grow taller and for a longer period of time. At the beginning, each Kampung provides 1 {{Production6}}, 1 {{Housing6}}, plus 1 {{Food6}} for each adjacent Fishing Boats. With a Lighthouse in place, considering a Kampung will be next to at least one Fishing Boats improvement, combined with the base yields of Lake and Coast tiles, each Kampung can provide 4 {{Food6}}, 1 {{Production6}}, 1 {{Housing6}} and 1 {{Gold6}}, which is really powerful. With the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance) tech [Mass%20Production%20%28Civ6%29](Mass Production), each Kampung provides a whopping 2 {{Housing6}}; 3 Kampungs provide the same amount of {{Housing6}} as a [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) in a [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Breathtaking) tile. Remember, unlike other {{Housing6}} improvements, the strongest selling point of Kampungs is that they can be placed next to one another; therefore, just 1 sea resource can be totally surrounded by Kampungs, which results in a massive amount of {{Housing6}} very early on. Although it seems like this improvement only has 2 scaling points in terms of yields at Mass Production and [Civil%20Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Engineering), that is not all there is. Taking into account that the Lighthouse and the [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport) also add extra to Coast and Lake tiles, every Kampung tile will be bustling with an eclectic mix of yields, especially when you manage to cover the entire coast with this improvement. Just with the Kampung alone, Indonesia can set up populous and productive cities even when the amount of land given is limited, and they can easily claim spots where other civilizations may fear to tread. For this reason, [Auckland%20%28Civ6%29](Auckland) should always be your number one city-state to compete for, and the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus) is also a top tier [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) that you should pay close attention to when playing as Indonesia.
Up until the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), Kampungs can only be built next to Fishing Boats resources. When {{Oil6}} is revealed, more locations can be filled with Kampungs, since they can be built next to {{Oil6}} as well, but the yields will not be improved by adjacent [Offshore%20Oil%20Rig%20%28Civ6%29](Offshore Oil Rigs). 
Also, with Flight, Kampungs will start generating {{Tourism6}} from {{Food6}}. For an Indonesia play-through pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory), this is essential. And like all tile improvements that provide {{Tourism6}} based on yields, any bonus {{Food6}} on the tile would add to the {{Tourism6}} output of the tile improvement. Additional {{Food6}} sources are the Lighthouse and [Huey%20Teocalli%20%28Civ6%29](Huey Teocalli) when building Kampungs on Lake tiles. The base {{Food6}} yields of the Coast and Lake tiles do not generate {{Tourism6}}. Each Kampung, therefore, has the potential to generate around 2 to 4 {{Tourism6}}, and considering the sheer number of this improvement in your whole empire, this can be really significant. If you want to go down such path, remember to invest into [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) early on to grab some {{GreatPeople6}}, which can also help you generate {{Culture6}} to unlock your Jong faster. Since your civilization loves settling on small landmasses, your precious bits of land are often dedicated to building Wonders and {{District6}}s, which makes fitting National Parks inside your cities a tall order. For that reason, prioritize researching [Cold%20War%20%28Civ6%29](Cold War) to unlock [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) to spend your {{Faith6}} on instead.