# Kandy (Civ6)

Kandy is a religious [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
Kandy's [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus can be helpful for players pursuing a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious) or [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory), as it allows them to find {{RelicIcon6}} [Relics%20%28Civ6%29](Relics) that give {{Faith6}} and {{Tourism6}} once they discover a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder). Under most circumstances, Kandy's bonuses are inconsequential, though some exceptions are explained below.
Kandy's first bonus to receive a {{RelicIcon6}} Relic when you find a natural wonder is most helpful if you find Kandy early, since by the mid-game you will have found most, if not all, of the natural wonders on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). The 50% increase to {{Faith6}} output from {{RelicIcon6}} Relics will remain much more useful, if a bit situational depending on how many {{RelicIcon6}} Relics you have - if your only source of {{RelicIcon6}} Relics is natural wonders as mentioned above, the extra {{Faith6}} will probably be minuscule compared to what you are already generating.
However, Kandy has excellent synergy with [Mont%20St.%20Michel%20%28Civ6%29](Mont St. Michel), which allows [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](religious units) to generate {{RelicIcon6}} Relics in combat by giving them the [Martyr%20%28Civ6%29](Martyr) {{Promotion6}}. It also has good synergy with [Jadwiga%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga), whose [List%20of%20leader%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](leader ability) boosts {{RelicIcon6}} Relics. [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese) players also get a boost from {{RelicIcon6}} Relics, though without [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), they may run into issues storing them.
Some natural wonders provide bonuses to adjacent [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles). By toggling the yield icons, you can detect the presence of some natural wonders before actually discovering them. In those cases it is a decent time to send {{Envoy6}}s to Kandy to become Suzerain. However, this strategy is time-consuming because it requires you to move your [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) one tile at a time and to not use auto-explore. Another convenient time to send Kandy {{Envoy6}}s is just before completing [Launch%20Earth%20Satellite%20%28Civ6%29](Launch Earth Satellite), because that will reveal every natural wonder. Conversely, Kandy's Suzerain bonus becomes substantially weaker after Launch Earth Satellite is completed. Forming an {{Alliance6}} with [Poundmaker%20%28Civ6%29](Poundmaker) is also likely to reveal natural wonders, since he can expand his [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) quickly and shares visibility with his allies.
Annoyingly, when you become Suzerain of Kandy, you gain shared vision with them "before" their Suzerain bonus kicks in. This means that if you discover a natural wonder thanks to this shared vision, you do "not" get the {{RelicIcon6}} Relic for it. Even more saddening is that you need an empty {{RelicIcon6}} Relic slot in order to receive a {{RelicIcon6}} Relic upon finding a natural wonder - if you don't, the [AI](AI) [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leader) who has the most {{Envoy6}}s at Kandy and an empty slot for the {{RelicIcon6}} Relic will receive it instead.