# Keshik (Civ5)

Game Info.
[Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](Unique) ranged mounted unit of the [Mongolian%20%28Civ5%29](Mongolian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Replaces the [Knight%20%28Civ5%29](Knight). Requires .
Strategy.
The Keshik possesses a strong ranged attack and an increased movement rate (5 points total), allowing it to perform hit-and-run attacks remarkably effectively. Although its attack strength is a bit weaker than that of both the standard Knight and the [Arabian%20%28Civ5%29](Arabian) [Camel%20Archer%20%28Civ5%29](Camel Archer), it has other advantages: it acquires more experience than the other units, and contributes double the number of points towards earning [Khan%20%28Civ5%29](Khans). Also, Keshiks do not receive a penalty when attacking [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities). This ability alone gives the Mongolians great advantage when attacking cities, because their Keshiks can sweep in range, fire, then retreat to safety. In effect, this allows them the same advantage as later game units enjoy: the ability to wear down city defenses from afar, without suffering retaliation! Keshiks single-handedly afford [Genghis%20Khan%20%28Civ5%29](Genghis Khan) and the Mongolians control of the open plains, decimating enemy forces from a distance and quickly advancing in levels and becoming more and more dangerous with each passing skirmish.
Since Keshiks are stronger and faster than [Crossbowman%20%28Civ5%29](Crossbowmen), an army of them is very difficult for all but the most skillful and well-prepared opponents to repel. The [English%20%28Civ5%29](English) [Longbowman%20%28Civ5%29](Longbowman), with its longer range, is just about the only archery unit that can try to hold its own against a lot of Keshiks. It has a range of 3, as opposed to the Crossbowman's range of 2. If you are playing as England, you might try using large numbers of Longbowmen to defend against the Keshiks.
[Chu-Ko-Nu%20%28Civ5%29](Chu-Ko-Nu) may also provide a good defense against them if you are playing as [Chinese%20%28Civ5%29](China). Although weaker than Keshiks, Crossbowmen, or Longbowmen, their ability to attack twice more than makes up for this weakness. Position them all around your [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) to create a defensive network that will rapidly wear down attacking Keshiks. Just beware of the Keshiks' movement, as they can perform hit-and-run tactics that may seriously hamper your Chu-Ko-Nu.
Another strategy is to use your own mounted units to rush the Keshiks before they can use their ranged attack. Keshiks are weaker than regular Knights in melee combat, but they are also faster and can retaliate against your Knights without taking damage themselves, so you will need to overwhelm them in as few turns as possible to avoid being worn down. Arabia's Camel Archers also have a ranged attack, so you can use the Keshiks' own tactics against them if you can catch them within attack range.
Using [Pikeman%20%28Civ5%29](Pikemen) against Keshiks won't work very well, because Keshiks will just stand away from your Pikemen and kill them one by one. [Longswordsman%20%28Civ5%29](Longswordsmen) are also too slow to attack Keshiks very well, despite their strength.
As with almost all units, Keshiks are severely damaged by powerful siege units (especially [Trebuchet%20%28Civ5%29](Trebuchets) and [Cannon%20%28Civ5%29](Cannons)), so always make sure that there is a siege unit garrisoned in the city.