# Khevsur (Civ6)

The Khevsur is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) of the [Georgian%20%28Civ6%29](Georgian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Man-At-Arms) and is unlocked with [Military%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tactics).
In the "" expansion, the Khevsur requires 10 {{Iron6}} to train.
Strategy.
The {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus when attacking in [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) counteracts the terrain's defense bonus, effectively giving the Khevsur +4 Combat Strength against opponents defending on Hills. When Georgia is under attack, a Khevsur defending on a Hills tile can have the same {{Strength6}} Combat Strength as a [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman). Whether for offense or defense, the Khevsur is commonly used in combination with the [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy) government, or the Oligarchic Legacy {{WildcardPolicy6}} Wildcard policy.
In "Gathering Storm", this unit receives two indirect buffs. First, with [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights) costing 60 {{Production6}} more (standing at 220 {{Production6}} per Knight), these units become much more useful, since their {{Strength6}} Combat Strength is situationally on par with that of Knights, and they are a much more economical choice. Second, Military Tactics is no longer a leaf [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology), meaning you actually need to research it in order to move on to other technologies. In Vanilla and "Rise and Fall", this is not the case, as very often, civilizations can skip this technology completely, especially when they have no intention to go on a conquest, and can always unlock better units somewhere else for defensive purposes. As a result, the Khevsur often gets left in the dust, since unless 4 extra Era Score can mean a difference in terms of [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Ages), {{Science6}} is generally worth being invested elsewhere. This major change brought by "Gathering Storm" revitalizes these units, as now they become much more incorporated into the grand strategy of their respective civilization. The April 2021 Update gives it a further buff by introducing the Man-At-Arms, a new standard unit that the Khevsur now replaces. This means if your treasury is doing well, you can prepare for the arrival of your unique unit by training Swordsmen and upgrade them. However, considering the Khevsur is most likely a defensive unit, and it is quite difficult to have a game with Georgia where your {{Gold6}} income is abundant enough to pull this off, this is rarely the way to go. If you want to go to war using this unit, build the Grand Master's Chapel, purchase Khevsurs with {{Faith6}} and they will pay themselves in {{Faith6}} thanks to Tamar's {{Faith6}}-on-kills ability
Unlike "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", the site of the battle in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" is actually the tile of the defender, not the attacker. Therefore, similar to other bonuses that grant extra {{Strength6}} Combat Strength when "fighting on" certain [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain), the Khevsur will receive extra {{Strength6}} Combat Strength when it attacks a unit standing on Hills, regardless of where the Khevsur stands. Also, the Khevsur will receive extra {{Strength6}} Combat Strength on defense if it gets attacked while standing on Hills.