# Kilwa Kisiwani (Civ6)

When you are the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of a [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-State) this [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) receives a +15% boost to the yield provided by that City-State. If you are the Suzerain to 2 or more City-States of that type an additional +15% boost is given to all your cities.
Kilwa Kisiwani is a {{Link6|Medieval Era}} {{Link6|Wonder}} in "". It must be built on flat land adjacent to [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast).
Strategy.
Kilwa Kisiwani is an interestingly unique wonder, for it's the only wonder whose bonuses are entirely dependent on what size of [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) you are playing on. Unlike wonders such as the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids), the [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum), the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus), or the [Ruhr%20Valley%20%28Civ6%29](Ruhr Valley), whose bonuses are static and consistently powerful across all games, Kilwa Kisiwani's bonuses to your [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) will ebb and flow even within a single game depending on what [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) are present and whether you gain (or lose) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerainty) over them.
That said, Kilwa Kisiwani does not pale in comparison to any of these wonders, and given that you will have Suzerainty over at least a couple of city-states, it is always worth attempting to build. This wonder has very loose placement restrictions, so it should be relatively easy to build. The wonder's description makes it hard to visualize its power. For example, if you are the Suzerain of one industrial city-state, the [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) that builds this wonder will gain a 15% bonus {{Production6}}; if you are the Suzerain of two or more industrial city-states, every single city in your empire will gain a 15% bonus {{Production6}} (which is almost like having a Ruhr Valley in every city), and the parent city of Kilwa Kisiwani will get a whopping 30% bonus {{Production6}}. It's crazy to think that the Ruhr Valley, at 1240 {{Production6}}, is almost twice as expensive as this wonder without having the game-breaking, empire-wide potential. Likewise, if you have Suzerainty of two scientific city-states, that's almost the amount of {{Science6}} you get from the [Amundsen-Scott%20Research%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Amundsen-Scott Research Station), as every city will receive 15% bonus {{Science6}} and the parent city 30% - only this comes four [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) sooner and avoids the hassle of having a [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow) city.
With "Rise and Fall" (and by extension ""), [Amani%20%28Diplomat%29%20%28Civ6%29](Amani) and the [Espionage%20%28Civ6%29%23Espionage%20Missions](Fabricate Scandal mission) gives you alternatives to earning {{Envoy6}}s and shifts the balance of power; you are no longer bound to the [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic tree) - leaders with additional abilities to generate {{Envoy6}}s outside the civic tree ([Pericles%20%28Civ6%29](Pericles) and [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo), [Tamar%20%28Civ6%29](Tamar), and [Matthias%20Corvinus%20%28Civ6%29](Matthias Corvinus)) still have a slight edge, but are no longer unbeatable in city-state diplomacy. As a result, Kilwa Kisiwani's bonuses are indirectly buffed, and it becomes more imperative to construct this wonder.
To sum it up, this is a ridiculously powerful wonder that flies under the radar of most players. The larger the map is, the more city-states there are, and the more likely you are to get Suzerainty of two city-states of the same type, the more powerful this wonder grows. All the wonders that grant a flat percentage of yields (Ruhr Valley, [Oxford%20University%20%28Civ6%29](Oxford University), [Broadway%20%28Civ6%29](Broadway), [Kotoku-in%20%28Civ6%29](Kotoku-in)) grant only 20% of their respective yields to the parent city; at its full potential (which is relatively simple to achieve on a Large or Huge map), Kilwa Kisiwani grants 30% yields to its parent city and 15% empire-wide, and it can grant as many types of yields as you can gain Suzerainty of. It is also cheaper and available earlier than almost all of those wonders mentioned above (except for Kotuku-in).
In the [Barbarian%20Clans%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian Clans) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), the ability of [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) to civilize makes Kilwa Kisiwani a must-have wonder, especially on larger maps. Late in the game, when all the outposts that spawned in remote areas have become city-states, its potential to help its owner generate {{Faith6}}, {{Production6}}, {{Science6}}, {{Gold6}}, and {{Culture6}} is nothing short of astronomical.