# Korean (Civ5)

The Korean people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". They are available with the , which was released on August 11, 2011.
Strategy.
Korea is a -oriented civilization: the [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) grants a +2 bonus to all specialists and [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great People) [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements), as well as a bonus equivalent to a [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29%23Research%20Agreement](research agreement) once a [Building%20%28Civ5%29](building) that provides direct output is built in the . While it is said that scientific [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders) also provide the bonus, the only wonder that gives the player the bonus is the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ5%29](Great Library), and because the research agreement bonus does not stack, this bonus is no greater than simply building a [Library%20%28Civ5%29](Library) in the .
While the boost through the construction of scientific buildings seems insignificant, the 2 bonus from each and Great Person tile improvement more than makes up for it, as it essentially works out like a slightly better version of [Secularism%20%28Civ5%29](Secularism) in the [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism) tree. This is independent of said [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policy), so a Korean with Secularism (even if it is not a ) will still generate more raw than a of other civilizations provided that said civilization doesn't have Secularism. However, since these bonuses only apply to things that are unavailable in the early game, Korea's early game is nowhere as near as solid as that of [Babylonian%20%28Civ5%29](Babylon), another -oriented civilization. Nonetheless, populous [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) which can afford to work specialist tiles will quickly make Korea a scientific powerhouse not only by providing , but also by providing Great People points. Thus it is important for Korea to have solid growth to maximize its unique ability.
Korea's [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) are defensive in nature. While they have limitations on their overall utility, they have very powerful combat strength that dwarfs other [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) in the same [Era%20%28Civ5%29](era). The [Hwach%27a%20%28Civ5%29](Hwach'a), a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Medieval Era) unit that replaces the [Trebuchet%20%28Civ5%29](Trebuchet), is particularly powerful when defending against infantry; its firepower is only marginally less than the [Artillery%20%28Civ5%29](Artillery) that comes in the late [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era), allowing the Hwach'a to decimate units caught within its firing range. This comes at the cost of lower base combat strength and the attack bonus against cities, making Hwach'a ill-suited for siege combat.
The [Turtle%20Ship%20%28Civ5%29](Turtle Ship) is also a powerful defensive unit. While its strength comes at the cost of the ability to travel through deep ocean outside of Korean [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory), the Turtle Ship boasts the largest combat strength increase of any unique unit, being 80% stronger than the [Caravel%20%28Civ5%29](Caravel) that it replaces. It can be a strong offensive tool against coastal neighbors not separated by deep oceans, pillaging coastal trade routes and improvements and perhaps taking [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) cities with support.