# Korean (Civ6)

The Korean people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". They are led by [Seondeok%20%28Civ6%29](Seondeok), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are red and light blue; and [Sejong%20%28Civ6%29](Sejong), under whom the colors are reversed.
The Koreans' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Three Kingdoms, which increases the {{Science6}} yield of [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) and the {{Food6}} yield of [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) placed adjacent to their civilization's unique infrastructure. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Hwacha%20%28Civ6%29](Hwacha) (which replaces the [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannon)), and their unique {{District6}} is the [Seowon%20%28Civ6%29](Seowon) (which replaces the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 3 towards [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) (except [Snow%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Snow Hills))"
Often described as one of the most newbie friendly civilizations to play, Korea is also a pure {{Science6}} civilization whose entire gameplay revolves heavily around a centerpiece, the Seowon. Backed up by an outrageous amount of {{Science6}} gained from their Seowons, Korea will always be a threat when they are present in the game.
Seowon.
The Seowon is undoubtedly the centerpiece of the entire Korean gameplay, so much so that even the entire civilization ability, Three Kingdoms, revolves solely around it. Learning how to play Korea effectively only boils down to how place Seowons in the most efficient manner, which is pretty simple.
The Seowon has a starting adjacency bonus of 4, scaling downward by 1 for every adjacent {{District6}}, including non-specialty {{District6}}s like the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) or [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct). The only exception is the {{Link6|Government Plaza}}, whose own built-in bonus cancels the penalty. For this reason, combined with the civilization ability, the best spot to place down a Seowon is in the second ring of the city in an open area where you can start putting down [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) afterwards. Keep in mind that Seowons can only be built on Hills when you settle new cities. Considering the significant {{Science6}} output of this {{District6}} and the level of importance it has for Korea, [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery) and [Writing%20%28Civ6%29](Writing) should always be the first two technologies you research every game. The only detour that you can sometimes take is to pick up [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining), if you happen to spawn in an area with a lot of [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), and you need to clear them to make space for your Seowon.
This also means that [Natural%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Philosophy) (unlocked with [Recorded%20History%20%28Civ6%29](Recorded History)) and [Rationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Rationalism) (unlocked with [The%20Enlightenment%20%28Civ6%29](The Enlightenment)) are two incredibly powerful cards for Korea, and thus their respective civics will need to be beelined as quickly as possible, especially Recorded History, since Natural Philosophy is just an easier card to be effective for Korea and it will shine in every game and every situation. Regarding Rationalism, after a series of nerfs to this card, its power level is definitely not where it used to be. While Korea pretty much guarantees the first condition (high adjacency Campuses), growing cities to 15 {{Population6}} Population reliably is a tall order. Their civilization ability is very underwhelming and serves a complementary role more than anything, additional {{Food6}} from Farms next to Seowons will barely be enough to set you apart from other civilizations without any bonus towards growth. Therefore, if you mess up the Seowon placement by putting down a {{District6}} next to it, there is no way to reverse that since the Seowon's adjacency bonus only scales downward, never upward. This actually happens more often than it should, even for experienced players. Since the Seowon is most likely the first {{District6}} you build in every city, and for every {{District6}} afterward, the habit of putting down {{District6}}s where they benefit from the highest starting adjacency often distracts from the fact that that optimal spot may be right next to a Seowon, thus disqualifying that Seowon from being able to benefit from the one condition of Rationalism that is supposed to be easy to grab. For that reason, whenever you put down a Seowon, you may want to put a marker to remind yourself never construct a {{District6}} in that area. Last but not least, try to plan your game so that you can get a [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age) in [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) and/or [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), so you can pick the Heartbeat of Steam Dedication. When combined with Natural Philosophy, each Seowon grants up to 8 {{Production6}} on top of the {{Science6}} it is already generating.
As highlighted above (and even more so in the [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon) article), {{Culture6}} generation is crucial for any scientific civilization, and Korea is no exception. However, if you are looking for a unique experience playing such a straightforward civilization like Korea, try to aim for a Dark Age in [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) to have access to [Monasticism%20%28Civ6%29](Monasticism). With an outrageous early {{Science6}}, an extra 75% {{Science6}} is a lucrative deal, even at the cost of 25% {{Culture6}}. This card is a {{DarkAgePolicy6}} Dark Age policy card, available only in the Classical and Medieval Era. Nonetheless, you need time to build Holy Sites to benefit from it, and the Era Score from building the Seowon in Ancient Era makes the most viable time to be in a Dark Age is Medieval. Even if you cannot enter a Dark Age in Medieval Era, the {{Faith6}} from Holy Sites you build can still be used to patron {{GreatPeople6}} later on.
Undoubtedly, the biggest and most exploitable weakness of this {{District6}} is how vulnerable it is to espionage. The fact that you will have a Seowon in every single city means there are always more points of entry for Steal Tech Boost missions than you can ever protect. Also, since the Seowon has to be built in isolation, protecting it means all other {{District6}}s will end up being easy preys: your [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors) will be removed, your [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) will be pillaged and your [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) will be constantly robbed. For this reason, any Spy that you can unlock should be used for defensive purposes. Korea is pretty much a one-trick pony, it is very well-known that if this civilization is in the game, it will go for a scientific victory. Therefore, it is better to use your agents to defend your obvious weak points that every scientific civilization has, rather than using them offensively. Any Spy {{Promotion6}} that helps with counterespionage is great for Korea: [Polygraph%20%28Civ6%29](Polygraph), [Quartermaster%20%28Civ6%29](Quartermaster), [Surveillance%20%28Civ6%29](Surveillance), or the [Cryptography%20%28Civ6%29](Cryptography) policy card as well.
In "", the power level of the Seowon is a bit hampered even though there is no direct nerf to this district. The regular Campus is now the easiest district to give a high starting adjacency bonus, due to major bonuses next to [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs) and [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures) and many curvy [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](mountain) ranges on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) (thanks to new map generations). On certain map types (most notably, Primordial, where Mountains and Geothermal Fissures appear in huge numbers), the Seowon even loses sometimes when compared to its counterpart, since its {{Science6}} is capped at 4 and can only scale downward. Even then, however, it is still only half as expensive as the Campus, which is a powerful option to have in and of itself, not to mention the boosts that it gives to basic improvements thanks to Korea's civilization ability.
Three Kingdoms.
There is not much to say about this ability, as it is only an extension of the Seowon and it is quite underwhelming, to say the least. The Seowon should be placed in the second ring of the city: placing it next to the City Center lowers its adjacency bonus, placing it in the third ring requires another city of yours next to it to be able to work all the tiles surrounding it. If you have to choose a preference, prioritize hilly areas to put down Seowons instead of spots surrounded by flat lands. The extra {{Food6}} from Farms is quite trivial and won't get you anywhere far, you can't reliably reach 15 {{Population6}} Population to satisfy the Rationalism policy card's condition just based on it. The extra {{Science6}} from Mines, even though unaffected by policy cards, can still be boosted by Seondeok's ability, and wonders that Korea loves building anyway like [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani), [Oxford%20University%20%28Civ6%29](Oxford University) or [Amundsen-Scott%20Research%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Amundsen-Scott Research Station). 
The more cities you have, the more Seowons you can build, and the higher your {{Science6}} will go. When taking into consideration the fact that Seowons take up a lot of space to maximize its power and this ability's efficacy, claiming land is of utmost importance as Korea. If Korea gets forward-settled in the early game, they can't fight back easily. Strong {{Science6}} output requires time to establish a lead, and the early game is when Korea has to focus on building up its infrastructure, waging wars in the early eras just because you get forward-settled is incredibly tough when playing Korea. Try to avoid this situation as much as possible. With your first few [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers), you may want to take your time and move them decently far away from your {{Capital6}} if it is safe to do so (you can gather this piece of information from the game setup: how many players/city-states versus the size of the map), and later try to populate more cities in between the {{Capital6}} and the peripheral ones. Avoid impassable and unremovable features (like [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) or [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures)), since they take up space where your Farms and Mines could have gone to without benefiting your Seowons. 
Hwarang (Seondeok).
Seondeok's leader ability gives +3% {{Culture6}} and +3% {{Science6}} to all cities with an established [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor) for each promotion that governor has. This further boosts the amounts of {{Science6}} Korea will be producing from the Seowons. The {{Culture6}} boost also supports a {{Science6}}-focused game as you will be focusing on building and improving Seowons and might overlook [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares). [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) (especially if you are playing with "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)") is an exceptional starting Governor for Korea. With just the starting title alone, Pingala can give a whopping 18% of bonus {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}} to the city he is in, most likely at this time your {{Capital6}}. Since Hwarang no longer gives {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}} according to the presence of Governors in cities but to the number of titles after the nerf, there is no point in appointing as many Governors as you can. As the matter of fact, it is often better to focus your titles on the Governors you need, since Governors like [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha) or [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor) may be rather useless to Korea in the majority of your games. Also, since this bonus is percentage based, it is unquestionable that the larger the city is, the more {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}} it can get out of this ability. By focusing your titles on a few Governors also, you can garrison your [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies) more effectively against Neutralizing Governors missions.
Since the number of total Governor titles is bound to the Civic tree, the only notable other way to get these titles is by building the [Casa%20de%20Contrataci%C3%B3n%20%28Civ6%29](Casa de Contratación), which grants you 3 extra Governor titles, equal to 9% more {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}}. Other notable ways to earn Governor titles besides unlocking civics include:
Hangul (Sejong).
This seems somewhat underwhelming at first glance, as for almost every turn in the game, you effectively don't have a leader ability. But the spikes it does provide are certainly useful in every game. Basically, you get a {{Culture6}} spike equal to twice your {{Science6}} per turn whenever you unlock the first technology of a new Era. This works in the same way as (but is smaller than) the bonus provided when completing the [Launch%20Moon%20Landing%20%28Civ6%29](Launch Moon Landing) project, and is at least synergistic with Korea, who will always have strong {{Science6}} per turn and can easily get locked completely into maximising this at the expense of {{Culture6}}. A few spikes of acceleration along the civic tree is certainly more than some leader abilities have to offer.
In the early game, this can help you reach key civics such as [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy) and [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) sooner than you otherwise would. Later on, it might seem to help you prioritise districts like [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) and [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) over [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), but again, {{Culture6}} is not to be underestimated as a yield for scientific civs like Korea, you will still want some Theater Squares (most likely next to any wonders you build to support your scientific goals).
One trick you can use as Sejong is to set your cities to complete [Campus%20Research%20Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Campus Research Grants) on the same turn you hit a new era on the tech tree, as this will give you a one-turn spike to your {{Science6}} at just the right time to apply to this ability.
Hwacha.
The Hwacha is an average unique unit, neither weak and forgettable nor outstanding enough to build entire strategies around. It has the same {{RangedStrength6}} Ranged Strength as and lower {{Strength6}} Combat Strength, {{Production6}}, and {{Gold6}} maintenance costs than the Field Cannon, and is available an entire [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) earlier. It also, like a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege unit), cannot attack after moving unless its maximum {{Moves6}} is at least 1 above normal. (For more details on how the move-and-shoot rule works, head [Movement%20%28Civ6%29%23Siege%20units%20and%20the%20move-and-shoot%20rule](here).) Placing it near a [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General) is the easiest way to satisfy this condition, but the Koreans' lack of incentives to build [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) make it hard for them to earn {{General6}} points, so they will most likely be limited to using the Hwacha as a defensive unit. The [Logistics%20%28Civ6%29](Logistics) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) is recommended for Korean players who want to use this unit more effectively, since it allows Hwachas to be on the offense against civilizations whose [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders) adjoin Korea's and more mobile on defense.
Moreover, the earlier availability of the Hwacha can work to Korea's advantage. The Koreans' bonuses to {{Science6}} output allow for unparalleled technological advancement, so if they have strong {{Production6}} potential in their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and/or a lot of extra {{Gold6}}, they can potentially surprise their neighbors with a legion of Hwachas at their doorstep. Both players who play as and against Korea tend to overlook how early the Hwacha can be unlocked, so a surprise war with this unit can yield a good result.
Victory Types.
Korea is often considered to be a newbie friendly civilization, as their bonus revolves heavily around a centerpiece, the Seowon, which is easy for even new players to use correctly. Obviously, Korea is one of the few pure {{Science6}} civilizations in the game, but following this traditional route may lead to an expectedly dull and passive gameplay, which is often associated with Korea's playstyle. The outrageous {{Science6}} lead you have on everyone else in the game will lead to always having access to more advanced units, meaning the wars you instigate are much more likely to be in your favor. A Domination Victory can easily be assured, especially if you hate a passive gameplay and an endless series of "Next Turn" clicks.
Counter Strategy.
The thing about {{Science6}} generation is that it takes quite a while to establish a lead, and this lead will get wider and wider with time. This means the sooner you address Korea, the less significant of a lead they will have over you. The Ancient Era is for sure the weakest point of Korea, as they have not had enough time to get a {{Science6}} lead, and they need this time to build up their infrastructure, not to mention they have no defensive mechanism against invasion. Even if you cannot take their cities, just forcing them to build units to defend themselves is a win in itself. Another way to do this is to forward-settle them. Korea has to be able to claim land early on, otherwise, they will not have enough cities to generate a lot of {{Science6}}. Also, Seowons have to go on Hills, so you can spot out hilly areas where you are sure Korea would love to have a city there.
If you spawn far away from Korea and there is nothing you can do to slow their advance, remember they are most likely to attempt for a Science Victory, and are miles ahead of anyone on the tech tree. At this time, your most precious weapon will be espionage. Spies are the bane of Korea. Just the fact that their Seowon cannot be next to any other {{District6}}s means their counterespionage will be lacking and inefficient. If they try to guard their Seowons with Spies, send your agents over to pillage their Industrial Zones and bankrupt them with Siphon Funds missions. When you have high enough {{Visibility6}} [Diplomatic%20Visibility%20and%20Gossip%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Visibility), you should be able to see where they assign which Governor, and try to remove [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala) and [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) as soon as you can. When promoting your Spies, the most important promotion that at least one of your Spies should have is [Rocket%20Scientist%20%28Civ6%29](Rocket Scientist), to stop them from completing Space missions. If you are so unlucky that none of your Spies has this promotion, there are also a lot of {{DiplomaticPolicyIcon6}} Diplomatic Policy Cards that boosts the power of your Spies who are on an offensive mission. For this particular reason, [Catherine%20de%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29](Catherine de Medici (Black Queen)) and [Wu%20Zetian%20%28Civ6%29](Wu Zetian) are a nightmare for Korea to play against, because not only do they have more Spies than normal, their Spies are a lot better right from the get-go. Also, the [Intelligence%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](Intelligence Agency), which is arguably already the premier choice of tier 2 government building, is most likely a must when playing against Korea.