# Kotoku-in (Civ6)

Grants 4 [Warrior%20Monk%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior Monks).
Warrior Monks can only be received if player has founded a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) or if there is a majority religion for this player or city.
Kotoku-in is a {{Link6|Medieval Era}} {{Link6|wonder}} in "". It must be built adjacent to a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) with a [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple).
Strategy.
Kotoku-in is, along with [Broadway%20%28Civ6%29](Broadway), [Oxford%20University%20%28Civ6%29](Oxford University), and [Ruhr%20Valley%20%28Civ6%29](Ruhr Valley), one of four wonders in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" and its expansions that grant their parent [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) a 20% bonus to one type of yield along with a secondary bonus. Oxford University and Ruhr Valley are excellent wonders and Broadway somewhat less so, but Kotoku-in is absolutely underwhelming and almost never worth building.
The main bonus of Kotoku-in is 20% extra {{Faith6}} for the parent city, which is underwhelming if you really break it down. Compared to {{Science6}}, {{Culture6}} and {{Production6}}, sources of {{Faith6}} are a lot rarer. Outside of unique bonuses, cities are likely to be dependent on Holy Sites and their buildings to generate {{Faith6}}, and not much else. In the Medieval Era, no one except [Ethiopian%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia) is guaranteed to have a city that can generate 50+ {{Faith6}} per turn, which is necessary to get 10 extra {{Faith6}} per turn out of this wonder. Also, considering the escalating cost of a lot of {{Faith6}} purchases while {{Faith6}} from Holy Sites and their buildings barely scale outside of certain [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards), the {{Faith6}} from this wonder will never be meaningful enough to make up for it.
Kotoku-in's secondary bonus is four free [Warrior%20Monk%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior Monks), which are underpowered by the time you get them. You may be better off using them for non-[Combat%20%28Civ6%29](combat) purposes, such as garrisoning cities to get extra {{Amenities6}} from the [Retainers%20%28Civ6%29](Retainers) policy or maintaining visibility over an area to prevent [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) from spawning there.
The bottom line is that most [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) shouldn't waste 710 {{Production6}} on building Kotoku-in without a compelling reason. Its only usable bonus is the extra {{Faith6}}, so the city to build this must have good {{Faith6}} generation with scaling potential. Ethiopia has the easiest time satisfying this condition: once they've built Kotoku-in, they can turn its parent city into a trading hub and focus on expanding its [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders) to claim and improve nearby [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) and increase their {{TradeRoute6}}s' {{Faith6}} yield. Moreover, their {{Faith6}} translates to extra {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}}, making it a 3-in-1 bonus. Certain civilizations with the proper [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheons) - like [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia) with [Dance%20of%20the%20Aurora%20%28Civ6%29](Dance of the Aurora), [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Mali) with [Desert%20Folklore%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Folklore), or [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazil) with [Sacred%20Path%20%28Civ6%29](Sacred Path) - can generate a large amount of {{Faith6}} very early, but since they almost exclusively rely on [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) and well-placed, well-developed Holy Sites, their {{Faith6}} generation per city won't scale and this wonder's impact will be short-lived.