# Kumasi (Civ6)

Kumasi is a cultural [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
Spawning next to Kumasi is the dream of any player, as this is one of the very best city-states in the game. Ignoring the fact that this is a cultural city-state and how valuable is at any point of the game for any victory condition, Kumasi's suzerain bonus is nothing short of being wildly overpowered. It focuses mostly on the amassing of from city-state , allowing you to gain a massive amount of very quickly and help you race through the [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ6](civic tree). Just to provide an example, a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) with 10 Population can build four specialty [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts), which translates to +8 and +4 per turn for each that city sends to a city-state. 
In the early game, has very limited availability, as it is very difficult to earn high adjancency bonuses for [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) and Theater Square buildings are very expensive. Just by having the suzerainty of Kumasi, a player, even without a wide empire, will have no problem being the one with the most per turn in the game, unlocking [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders), [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards), and [Government%20%28Civ6%29](governments) they need for any strategy far before anyone else. This ability has a lot of synergy with [Chinguetti%20%28Civ6%29](Chinguetti) and the [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchant) [Ibn%20Fadlan%20%28Civ6%29](Ibn Fadlan), and works well with both a wide and a tall empire.
For the reasons above, whenever you see Kumasi in your game, especially in the early stages, send any you can come across there. This is one of the powerful city-states that can greatly influence the outcome of the game, so if you cannot compete for Kumasi due to the presence of a diplomatic civilization, think about conquering it to deny its great bonus from falling into the wrong hand.