# Lady of the Reeds and Marshes (Civ6)

Lady of the Reeds and Marshes is a [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](Pantheon) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It increases the {{Production6}} of [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marsh), [Oasis%20%28Civ6%29](Oasis), and [Desert%20Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Floodplains) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) by 1 (2 in "").
Strategy.
The fact that [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](desert terrain) is poor in {{Production6}} is often overlooked when compared to the even more important lack of {{Food6}}. And while there are some [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29%23Features](features) and [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) that provide {{Food6}}, this is not the case with {{Production6}}, especially if there's no [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](hilly) terrain nearby. This Pantheon comes in handy in this exact situation!
If you've settled in the low-lying valley of a [River%20%28Civ6%29](river) crossing the desert, Lady of the Reeds and Marshes will add {{Production6}} to many of the features nearby. And given that they usually form a solid area of 4-6 tiles, this can make a huge difference.
Lady of the Reeds and Marshes is a fine Pantheon for both [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) and [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam). Egypt has a [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias) toward Floodplains and receives no damage from [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](Floods), meaning that this gives them bonus yields from something that they already want. Vietnam also has a sizeable starting bias toward Marsh, and can take particular advantage of these tiles, especially when they have resources on them. The [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori), too, deserve an honorable mention here; because their [Marae%20%28Civ6%29](Marae) improves yields to tiles with features and because they have a particular penchant for [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserves) (and tiles with Marshes generally cannot be improved anyway), this pantheon might be a situational opportunity if they stumble across a marshy expanse during their initial colonization.
Finally, players who choose this Pantheon are encouraged to build [Etemenanki%20%28Civ6%29](Etemenanki), which will allow their Marsh and Floodplains tiles to produce massive yields.