# Lake Retba (Civ6)

Lake Retba is a two-tile passable {{Link6|natural wonder}} in "". Lake Retba appears as a {{Link6|Lake}} on {{Link6|Grassland}} or {{Link6|Plains}} {{Link6|tile}}s. Each wonder tile provides 2 {{Culture6}}, 2 {{Gold6}}, and 1 {{Production6}} (instead of the normal yields from Lake tiles). Lake Retba increases the {{Link6|Appeal}} of adjacent tiles by +2.
In "Rise and Fall", Lake Retba provides {{Link6|fresh water}} to adjacent tiles. Land {{Link6|unit}}s also suffer a {{Movement6}} penalty when they embark/disembark from Lake Retba's tiles onto dry land.
Discovering Lake Retba grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
In "", Lake Retba is treated as a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tile. It only provides 1 extra {{Housing6}} from settling nearby, its yields can be changed by the [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus), and every [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) and [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvement) that has to be built on the coastline can be built next to Lake Retba, provided that all other conditions are satisfied.
Strategy.
Each Lake Retba tile has a yield of 2 {{Culture6}}, 2 {{Gold6}}, and 1 {{Production6}}. Since {{Culture6}} is often hard to generate early in the game, incorporating natural wonder tiles can provide a vital head start through the [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ6](civics tree).
Like ordinary lake/coast tiles, the yields of Lake Retba's tiles can be increased using certain bonuses. If the wonder tiles are owned by a {{Link6|city}} with a {{Link6|Lighthouse}} and {{Link6|Seaport}}, the yield of the tiles will increase by 1 {{Food6}} and 2 {{Gold6}} respectively. Owning the {{Link6|Huey Teocalli}} wonder will also increase the Lake's yields by 1 {{Food6}} and 1 {{Production6}}. The [Auckland%20%28Civ6%29](Auckland's) {{Link6|Suzerain}} bonus also increases the tile yields by 1 {{Production6}}, and a further 1 {{Production6}} upon reaching the {{Link6|Industrial Era}}. [Nan%20Madol%20%28Civ6%29](Nan Madol's) bonus of +2 {{Culture6}} will apply to any [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) built next to Lake Retba.
Unfortunately, as with all natural wonders, Lake Retba's tiles cannot be developed or improved. Because of this, it may be more of a hindrance than an asset later in the game - a natural wonder in the heart of a city can spoil adjacency bonuses for [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and districts. In general, passable wonder tiles are significantly better than an unimproved tile of any kind, but are often less productive than an ordinary tile with an improvement or a district.
Note that the wonder tiles can be incorporated into {{Link6|National Park}}s - if a player wishes to found a Park, then it is often wise to include as many wonder tiles as possible within a city.