# Landship (Civ5)

Game Info.
Tank unit of the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Modern Era). Upgrades from the [Cavalry%20%28Civ5%29](Cavalry). Requires {{Oil5}}.
Strategy.
The Landship is the first tank in the game - a heavily armored vehicle armed with short-range cannons whose powerful engines move its bulky form with surprising speed and maneuverability, rivaling a cavalry unit. Its development heralds the end of the horse on the battlefield, because the new machine can better perform all that the mounted units could, while also being capable of attacking [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) with the same efficiency as units on the battlefield. Earlier units' anti-cavalry weapons prove completely useless against the heavy armor of the Landship, as do most hand-held guns and even [Machine%20Gun%20%28Civ5%29](Machine Guns). This makes the Landship very effective against ranged units and siege weapons, as well as solitary and unsupported infantry. Still, like cavalry, these tanks can't use defensive [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) features and can do nothing against air power or long-range bombardment, so don't get overconfident. Also, remember that the Landship's engines need {{Oil5}} to move the massive vehicle around.
Just as the Landship represents a transition from mounted units to armored units, the "Bonus vs Mounted" ability does not increase the damage that other units do to it (as it is replaced by the "Bonus vs Armored" ability). Dedicated anti-cavalry units will no longer be useful once players begin to field Landships, so they should be upgraded to [Anti-Tank%20Gun%20%28Civ5%29](Anti-Tank Guns) as quickly as possible.