# Lavra (Civ6)

The Lavra is a unique of the [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Lavra:
Strategy.
The Lavra is a reliably powerful district in every Russia game you will play. Although Hojo Tokimune can build cheap Holy Sites, and [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantine) Holy Sites generate twice as many points, the Lavra combines these two into one, thus ensuring that the Russians will be one of the first civilizations to found a religion every game. Having the first pick of religious beliefs is a powerful advantage which provides flexibility. Seeing Byzantium, [Spanish%20%28Civ6%29](Spain) or [Polish%20%28Civ6%29](Poland) as your neighbor? Pick Crusade. Seeing [Gandhi%20%28Civ6%29](Gandhi) or [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia) and suspecting they may go for a religious victory? Pick Mosque. An extra point also means after your is recruited, each Lavra will generate an extra .
The second main draw of the Lavra is providing a point for a , , and with each Shrine, Temple, and worship building respectively built. This is the same bonus as a base [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square). If you have a lot of fully developed Lavras, you may consider building Theater Squares as well to have some Great Work slots to activate your . Your amazing generation will allow you to purchase [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists) and [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) to easily pivot to a cultural victory.
Lastly, the city's borders expand each time a Great Person is activated there. This gives Russia even more incentives to build [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) and focus on cultural development in its cities, attracting all kinds of artistic geniuses who can expand Russia's borders while edging it ever closer to winning a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory). This bonus will also apply to tiles outside of the usual 3 tile range from the City Center after they have all been claimed. While the tiles in this expansive territory can't be normally worked, they can still host [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks), [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Forts), or [Missile%20Silo%20%28Civ6%29](Missile Silos), depending on your needs.
Consider grabbing the [Dance%20of%20the%20Aurora%20%28Civ6%29](Dance of the Aurora) [Pantheons%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) to gain a massive boost, particularly combined with the [Scripture%20%28Civ6%29](Scripture) [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](policy card), and you will be well on the way to a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](religious victory). In combination with the [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29](Work Ethic) belief with your religion, and later [Simultaneum%20%28Civ6%29](Simultaneum) policy card, you will be swimming in and , the two most versatile yields in the game.