# Lawyer (CTP2)

The Lawyer is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20CTP2](unit) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
One of the more effective economic warfare Stealth Units, the Lawyer has two attacks in its briefcase. It can File an Injunction, which temporarily halts all [Production%20%28CTP2%29](Production) in a [City%20%28CTP2%29](city). It can also Sue other Trade Units, such as [Corporate%20Branch%20%28CTP2%29](Corporate Branches). The Lawyer is the only unit that can sue to remove a Franchise from a city. Each special attack costs your empire [Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28CTP2%29](Gold) to carry out. Lawyers charge by the hour, you know!
Great Library entry.
From the period of 200 BC to 600 AD in Greco-Roman civilization, the first class of legal specialists distinct from judges emerged. Originally, there was prejudice against the idea of legal experts charging fees for their services. Citizens generally knew the law and applied it in business and litigation with advice from kinsmen and advisors. Nevertheless, as the law became more complex, men, usually patricians, found a need to study the law in depth, and some were considered experts. They would often serve as magistrates and, in Rome, priests of the official religion specializing in family law. Roman legal experts became jurisconsults, acting at a trial as nonpartisan consultants prohibited from receiving fees. Late in the Roman Empire, the modern lawyer, earning a living by fees paid for legal services, emerged. It was universally recognized that a subversive system of gifts and under-the-table payment rendered the ban on fees merely a fictitious convention, and the state began to regulate fees paid. Changes in trial methods spelled the demise of the jurisconsult. The orator, who previously acted as an untrained partisan, became the advocate and was required to become legally trained. Jurisconsults found roles as legal professors at state-sponsored schools in Rome and Constantinople.
In modern times, the lawyer acted as an advocate on behalf of his or her client. They perform all of the functions that, in Roman times, were divided amongst orators and jurisconsults, including introducing evidence, interrogating witnesses and arguing questions of law and fact. They were beholden to the needs of their client, the administration of justice and service to the community. As legal systems around the world varied, so did the roles of lawyers. In England, lawyers were divided into barristers, who pleaded in the higher courts, and solicitors, who pleaded in the lower courts. In the United States, attorneys often specialized in areas of the law, such as criminal, personal injury, corporate, probate and divorce, though many maintained general practices. The reputation of lawyers through modern times varied widely, from the respected, trusted defender of the public and upholder of the rule of law to the ruthless shark of corporate advocacy to the unscrupulous, money-grubbing shyster. Regardless of reputation, the lawyer was a prominent and integral aspect of the legal system of almost every modern nation.