# Legion (Civ5)

Game Info.
[Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](Unique) front-line unit of the [Roman%20%28Civ5%29](Roman) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Replaces the [Swordsman%20%28Civ5%29](Swordsman). Requires .
Strategy.
The Legion is the Roman replacement for the Swordsman. Its strength is greater than either the Swordsman or the [Pikeman%20%28Civ5%29](Pikeman) (which becomes available later), but what's even more interesting about Legions is their ability to build [Road%20%28Civ5%29](roads) and [Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Forts), serving as extra [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers) exactly at the time your young empire needs to build its road network. This can be very useful for making s to newly captured [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities), or building bridges over [Rivers%20%28Civ5%29](rivers) to allow for faster troop movement across them (much like how [Trajan](Trajan) crossed the Danube). You can use your Legions for this purpose any time they aren't fighting, and free up your Workers to build other [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements).
Unfortunately, this unique trait does not extend through upgrades, unlike many other unique traits, and a Legion cannot build on a tile if a Worker is already building something there.
Even after [Steel%20%28Civ5%29](Steel) has been researched, the Romans are actually still able to produce Legions. This is unlike most other unique units, which become [obsolete](obsolete) with a certain [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology) similar to the regular ones and are subsequently replaced by their upgrades.
Luckily, even if you're not Rome, you can still get the Legion by being allies with Militaristic [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-States) (provided Rome is not one of the civilizations in the game).