# Liang (Surveyor) (Civ6)

Liang, otherwise known as The Surveyor, is one of the s introduced in "". She excels at developing the infrastructure of a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) and protecting it against environmental effects.
Strategy.
An expert in efficiency, Liang is skilled in all things related to building and construction. An expert planner, she can also supervise the development of custom [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](improvements) in the city.
Liang is best used in new cities with low . Her starting title of Guildmaster gives all [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) in the city an extra build charge, so the new city's problems can be alleviated by simple improvements like [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines). These Builders will have 6 build charges if you have the [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom) or [Public%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Public Works) Economic policy cards, 7 if you've built the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids), and 8 if you're playing as [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin Shi Huang).
Aquaculture is generally not useful until the later [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) of the game, where large cities begin struggling to continue growing their Population due to their Farms having been replaced by [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhoods). The only exception is cities that have been settled in [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra), [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert), or [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow), where the [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Ocean) has more yield than the aforementioned Tundra, Desert or Snow. You can also use it to help a [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) city with .
Infrastructure is more or less just a stepping stone towards Zoning Commissioner. All of the City Center buildings are generally cheap enough that you can buy them with without impacting your treasury too much (aside from [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls), which cannot be bought, but become obsolete anyway after researching [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel)). However, the Government Plaza buildings can be quite expensive, so it isn't a bad idea to place Liang in the Government Plaza's city for a short time after you've gained your preferred Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3 governments and while you aren't producing [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers).
Zoning Commissioner is one of the most useful promotions for any Governor. It is a slightly slower version of [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna's) [Contractor%20%28Civ6%29](Contractor) promotion. If you do not wish to spend high amounts of on a new city's s, buy only a [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builder) and redirect a [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Trader) to your new city. Use the Builder to create Mines and [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries), and send the Trader to a city that will provide large amounts of or (preferably both) back.
Amusement is generally not a useful promotion and not worth taking Liang out of a growing city to take advantage of unless a city is having a dangerous amount of issues (e.g., the city is going to spawn [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) from having too few within a couple turns).
Finally, Parks and Recreation is a decent promotion. After researching [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight), it is useful to generate .
In "", Infrastructure is replaced with Reinforced Materials. It is useful for keeping important s and improvements (such as high-yield [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) and Mines next to [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanos)) in Liang's city protected from [Disaster%20%28Civ6%29](disasters).