# List of wonders in Civ2

The following is a list of wonders in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)" and its expansions.
s in "Civilization II" are divided into groups according to epoch, each of which have seven to build.
Wonders of the World and gameplay.
All Wonders of the World have their own prerequisite technology in order to be able to construct them (e.g. Map Making for the Lighthouse, Bronze Working for the Colossus, and Pottery for the Hanging Gardens). Certain technologies cause the expiration of a particular Wonder's benefits (e.g. Magnetism, Flight and Railroad for the three Wonders mentioned above, respectively). Ten Wonders have technologies that make them expire, but eighteen do not.
Wonders of the World can be categorized into those that affect happiness, cities and buildings, units and movement, technology, diplomacy and finally economics. Wonders can be city-specific, continent-specific, civilization-specific, while three effect all players. City-specific Wonders affect only the city in which it was built (such as the Colossus, which grants an extra trade arrow in utilized squares of that city's radius). Continent-specific wonders only affect cities on the same continent in which it was built (such as J. S. Bach's Cathedral and Hoover Dam). Civilization-specific Wonders affect the entire empire that controls it (such as the Hanging Gardens, which grants +1 happiness in all cities of the same civilization). International wonders are the United Nations (brings all civs into contact), the Manhattan Project (allows all civs to build nuclear bombs, provided they have the required technology), and the Apollo Program (reveals the entire map to all players).
When a civilization-specific Wonder does not expire, its effects can dramatically affect gameplay. For example, building (or capturing) Michelangelo's Chapel immediately puts a Cathedral in every city of the controlling civilization, greatly promoting happiness. Of course, this makes the cities that contain those Wonders all the more crucial to defend, since losing the city to conquest causes the benefits of that Wonder to be lost (and switch over to the capturing player if the city survives). Accordingly, certain Wonders have a 'must' status in certain types of games or for certain types of players. For example, the Pyramids (+50% retention of food surplus after city growth), Michelangelo's Chapel (Cathedral in every city), J.S. Bach's Cathedral (free additional temple) and Leonardo's Workshop (automatic unit upgrades - until the development of the Automobile) are valuable for expanding empires and/or gameplay at the more difficult levels. Additionally, warmongering empires will seek to build the Great Wall and Sun Tzu's War Academy.
Alternatively, one can temporarily cripple a rival civilization by causing their Wonder of the World to expire, such as when any player learns Metallurgy causing the Great Wall to expire (and the free city-walls in each of the controlling player's cities suddenly disappear).