# List of wonders in Civ5

A Wonder is a mega-building, which may be unique in the world, and provides exceptional bonuses. All Wonders are inspired by real-world buildings and landmarks. Note that the effect of each wonder only applies to the [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) controlling the [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) where it is built; also, many Wonders have on-build effects which won't activate again if another civilization captures their city. 
Besides their main unique bonuses, most Wonders produce additional benefits such as or , and all of them produce at least 1 . All of these yield bonuses apply directly to the city where the Wonder is built (if applicable). Also, most Wonders produce Points of some kind - check their info blocks for the details.
This page lists all [%23World%20Wonders](World) and [%23National%20Wonders](National Wonders) available in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", as well as [%23Projects](Projects).
In "", some of the wonders can now be built only after adopting a certain policy tree or ideology. For example, to build the [Forbidden%20Palace%20%28Civ5%29](Forbidden Palace), the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) policy tree must have been started.
World Wonders.
Only one of these can exist in the world. If multiple civilizations would complete it on the same turn, whichever civilization takes its turn first will build that wonder.
National Wonders.
These are special wonders which can only be built once a certain building (or its [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](unique replacement)) has been built in all cities the civilization controls directly (that is, excluding Puppet cities). Only one of these can exist in a single civilization, but each civilization can build one for itself (so, there is no competition here). Note that the Palace cannot be built - it is automatically built when a civilization's first city is founded - and the Grand Temple must be built in a [Holy%20City%20%28Civ5%29](Holy City).
Guilds.
In "Brave New World", three guilds were introduced. They are actually a mix between a building and a national wonder, in that they don't need a prerequisite building in every city, but only one of each can exist in a single civilization. Since they're the only means for producing [Great%20Writer%20%28Civ5%29](Great Writers), [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Artists), and [Great%20Musician%20%28Civ5%29](Great Musicians), the urgency of their building will depend on a civilization's [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) strategy.
Projects.
These late-game projects grant a civilization a powerful ability once finished. They cannot be rushed using Great Engineers (except for spaceship parts if a civilization is using the Order [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](Ideology)).
International Projects.
These projects are a new feature in "Brave New World". Unlike normal projects, they may only be proposed during the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress). If the proposition passes, the projects can be undertaken by all civilizations simultaneously. Each International Project grants prizes depending on how much the civilization was involved, based upon the contributed towards the project. Only the civilization that contributed the highest amount of will get the first prize, whereas every civilization that contributed the stated amount or above will get second and third prizes. Each project may be undertaken/completed only once.