# Longhouse (Civ5)

Game Info.
[Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](Unique building) of the [Iroquois%20%28Civ5%29](Iroquois) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Replaces the [Workshop%20%28Civ5%29](Workshop).
Strategy.
The Longhouse shifts the {{Production5}} bonus focus from a general bonus to the more specific bonus to {{Production5}} yield from [Forest%20%28Civ5%29](Forests). While this building may seem worse in many cases than the Workshop it replaces, it must be assessed in terms of wider Iroquois strategy.
Whereas with most other civilizations a Forest tile is relatively weak and best chopped down and replaced by a [Farm%20%28Civ5%29](Farm) or [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great Person) [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvement), an Iroquois player can best make use of the Longhouse and their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) by keeping Forests intact. With a [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ5%29](Lumber Mill), [Scientific%20Theory%20%28Civ5%29](Scientific Theory), and a Longhouse, a single Forest tile can yield 1 {{Food5}} and 4 {{Production5}} to the city that works it - which, considering the Iroquois [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ5%29](starting bias) for Forest, is likely to create a powerful late-game {{Production5}} center without sacrificing too much growth.
Alternatively, [Trading%20Post%20%28Civ5%29](Trading Posts) and [Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Forts) can be built on the Forest tiles, with the former providing {{Gold5}} (and {{Science5}} with the [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism) [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy)) and the latter providing defensive boosts in addition to the Forest's innate defensive bonuses. Because the Longhouse still provides extra {{Production5}}, they can still be treated as Lumber Mills in addition to their new improvements. This makes Forest tiles incredibly versatile for the Iroquois.
With the exceptions of the [Moroccan%20%28Civ5%29](Moroccan) [Kasbah%20%28Civ5%29](Kasbah) and the [Dutch%20%28Civ5%29](Dutch) [Polder%20%28Civ5%29](Polders), no other unique building or improvement in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" bestows a raw {{Production5}} benefit, and unlike the Kasbah, the Longhouse improves an already high {{Production5}} potential. Use it to train an army in no time, or build buildings faster!