# Lord of the Rings (CTP2)

Lord of the Rings is a [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20CTP2](scenario) for "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)" that is based on the works of and set in the world of . It is one of the six fantasy [Map%20%28CTP2%29](maps) including Star Trek broken earth. Most maps are available through [Apolyton%20Civilization%20Site](Apolyton). Extra maps can be found at [WePlayCiv](WePlayCiv) such as western front map made by [Activision](Activision).
Introduction.
The Middle-earth map in "Call to Power II" is only medium-sized, but there are still about 200 or so [city-state](city-state)s and over a dozen [Civilizations%20%28CTP2%29](civilizations) that were located on this map. The map spans the Second and Third Ages up to the present, but it does not feature the First Age because the coast line was radically different in that time period. Regardless, the Second and Third Ages of Middle-earth cover about 6000 years of history. The time frame is similar to that of the base game, making it technically possible to start a game in [4000%20BC](4000 BC) and play until [Victory%20%28CTP2%29](victory) can be reached in [2300%20AD](2300 AD). However, a civilization that has enough [City%20%28CTP2%29](cities) will advance much faster in science and technology than a smaller civilization. (By the year 2300 AD, your technology might be set in the [Ancient%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Ancient) or [Renaissance%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Renaissance Age), but it could be [Modern%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Modern), [Genetic%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Genetic), or even the [Diamond%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Diamond Age) if you play for this long with a big empire.)
Civilizations.
The civilizations of the Lord of the Rings mod span multiple time periods.
Domination Victory.
The easiest way to win is by playing as the [Arnorians%20%28CTP2%29](Arnorians). The best time period was when they were having a golden age. This was the time when the Arnorians had united much of the Eridor Basin. It is best to use your dragons to send raids on Mordor Orcs.