# Loyalty (Civ6)

Loyalty is a game mechanic added to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the "" expansion pack. It represents the political alignment of a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) and how much political control its current owner has over it. Loyalty introduces a new way in the game to change city ownership (along with associated territory) without military conquest.
Mechanics.
Loyalty applies to each city of each [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) individually and represents how much political control that nation has over the city's ruling class. Loyalty has far-reaching consequences with serious gameplay effects; below a certain point, Loyalty problems will start affecting the city's economy as the ruling class starts disagreeing with local government officials. The situation may become so serious as to completely cripple city life: {{Population6}} Population growth will stall, scientific and cultural contribution will stop, basic production will become a burden, and if the situation persists, the city will rebel.
Each city has a Loyalty score which is a value between 0 and 100, and a Loyalty change per turn. The latter is decided by the sum of four factors:
Below you will find a more detailed breakdown of these factors.
Loyalty states.
The current Loyalty of a city is described by four stages with relevant gameplay effects:
Thus low Loyalty, even without falling further, will still cripple a city's development! You should try your utmost not to let Loyalty fall below 26.
If a city reaches 0 Loyalty or less while continuously receiving negative Loyalty per turn, it will revolt and break away from the empire which owns it, turning into a "Free City" (see [%23Free%20Cities](below)).
Note that it "is" possible to flip another player's {{Capital6}}! Of course, since it exerts extra Loyalty on its own, you will need to achieve really big pressure - that is, you need to remove their own pressure by eliminating their other cities, and possibly surrounding it with your own cities from every direction.
City-states and Loyalty.
[City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-states) are a special case within the Loyalty pressure system. They have a special extra Loyalty feat which gives a bonus to resisting pressure from nearby civilizations.
Factors affecting Loyalty.
The following factors are all cumulative; that means that a combination of all could potentially achieve a Loyalty pressure of 40+ for a given city.
Pressure from nearby citizens.
The pressure from nearby citizens is a metric calculated for each individual city dependent upon the {{Population6}} Populations of neighboring cities from the same civilization compared against the {{Population6}} Populations of neighboring cities from foreign civilizations. Only cities within 9 tiles can impact the pressure from nearby {{Citizen6}} Citizens, and Free Cities and city-states have no impact.
The calculation is done in two stages: first, pressure from your own neighboring {{Citizen6}} Citizens and pressure from foreign neighboring {{Citizen6}} Citizens are calculated; second, a comparison is performed to determine the final pressure value. Each unit of {{Population6}} Population exerts pressure proportional to its distance away - the amount of pressure diminishes by 10% per tile away from the home city. The [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Age) each civilization is currently experiencing also has an impact:
 Domestic Pressure = Age Factor * Sum of [ each Domestic Population * (10 - Distance Away) ]
 Foreign Pressure = Sum of [ each Foreign Population * (10 - Distance Away) * Age Factor of Foreign Civ ]
where Age Factor is 1.0 for Normal Age, 0.5 for Dark Age, and 1.5 for Golden or Heroic Age. Each {{Citizen6}} Citizen in the {{Capital6}} exerts an additional 1.0 per turn. A city always exerts its own domestic pressure with the Distance Away set to zero. The [Bread%20and%20Circuses%20%28Civ6%29](Bread and Circuses) [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project) from a nearby [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) or [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Park) also has the effect of doubling the {{Population6}} Population count, so a Bread and Circuses project in a highly populated city can be very powerful. In the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), cities owned by a player who achieves a {{GoldenAge6}} exert even more Loyalty pressure based on excess [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score).
 Pressure from Nearby Citizens = 10 * (Domestic - Foreign) / (minimum of [Domestic, Foreign] + 0.5)
This final pressure value is capped at ±20. In other words, even if nearby cities have enough {{Citizen6}} Citizens to exert more than 20 points of pressure, the final effect won't exceed +20 or -20. Other factors (happiness, religion, etc.), however, will still build upon this pressure, potentially resulting in a total Loyalty per turn well over +20.
There is a special case which occurs when a city someone just conquered becomes the reason for an [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](Emergency) (a "Free this city" type of mission). To ensure that this city remains owned by the actual target of the Emergency and doesn't flip before it ends, it will receive an extra 20 points of Loyalty for the duration of the Emergency. Of course, military conquest will result in ending the Emergency itself, and cancel these points.
Example of pressure from nearby citizens.
The image to the right contains a small island with 5 cities, 1 city-state (which we ignore), 2 cities owned by [English%20%28Civ6%29](England) (which is experiencing a {{NormalAge6}}), and 2 cities owned by [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongo) (which is experiencing a {{DarkAge6}}). If we calculate the pressure for the city of Kinchassa:
 Domestic = 0.5 * [ 5 * (10-0) + 2 * (10-4) ] = 31
 Foreign = [ 1 * 11 * (10-7) + 1 * 2 * (10-4) ] = 45
 Pressure = 10 * (31 - 45) / (min[31,45] + 0.5) = -4.4
The pressure for Mbanza Mbata and Manchester can be similarly calculated but Liverpool has external influence from other cities from the south and west.
England could mount a "Loyalty attack" (see [%23Loyalty%20attack](below)) by running Bread and Circuses in Liverpool. This would reduce Kinchassa's pressure to -15.2 (and Mbanza Mbata's to -10.8). Neutralising its Governor, whilst also using Amani's Emissary title and quickly growing the {{Population6}} Population of Manchester, would see Kinchassa revolt in around 5 turns, and Mbanza Mbata would also fall shortly after. Kongo's {{DarkAge6}} makes this a fairly straightforward attack to mount. If England were also in a {{GoldenAge6}}, this attack might succeed even without the player necessarily doing anything or being aware of it.
Happiness of the citizens.
Happiness of the citizens (which depends on {{Amenities6}} in the city) also plays a role:
Domestic and foreign Governors.
Impacts from Governors can be direct or indirect depending upon their abilities.
Other factors.
A number of [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) have a major impact on Loyalty. Usually, however, they only provide their benefit under certain circumstances:
[Building%20%28Civ6%29](Buildings) also can have an impact on Loyalty:
And there are also a number of other factors:
A number of {{GreatPeople6}} can permanently increase Loyalty in the city where they are Retired. Note that many of them are [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals) and can only be activated in [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) cities, meaning that only such cities will be able to benefit from their ability.
Finally, there are a number of civilization-, [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leader)-, and game mode-specific abilities which increase or decrease Loyalty:
Free Cities.
If the Loyalty score of a city that is exerting negative Loyalty pressure per turn drops to 0, it will declare independence, ripping itself away from its mother nation and becoming a Free City. Unlike a city-state, a Free City doesn't have a strong national identity, and is basically the local governors of the city becoming fed up with central government and deciding to have a crack at independence. Consequently, their functionality is quite limited.
Free Cities' colors are dark gray and dark red, and just like [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) they are always hostile toward (i.e., at war with) other civilizations. This means that they will attack any units that near their territory, and often will invade neighboring cities. For this purpose, Free Cities spawn military units as soon as they declare independence, and continue training them non-stop. But apart from this, they don't do anything else. The tech level of units matches the tech era of the last civilization which was in control of this city, not that of its original owner.
Free Cities are like city-states in that they don't compete to win the game, but they are different in everything else. They cannot be negotiated with (e.g., attracted as allies for wars), they are not valid destinations for {{TradeRoute6}}s, and they do not provide any other benefits which real city-states grant to empires with enough {{Envoy6}}s present. And it is because they don't have real governmental structures and national identity that they are still subject to Loyalty pressures, and will eventually petition to join another empire which manages to exert sufficient pressure on them. You can always see the flag of the civilization exerting the greatest pressure flashing under the city.
Note that Free Cities receive a +10 Loyalty bonus to help them resist foreign pressure. This bonus makes it possible for Free Cities to entice other cities - including their previous owner's {{Capital6}} - to join them, especially when the Dramatic Ages game mode is enabled.
The process of causing a city of a foreign empire to become a Free City and then causing it to join your own empire is known as "flipping" a city. First you need to exert enough Loyalty pressure on a nearby foreign city to force it to become a Free City, then make sure no one else exerts more pressure on it until you flip it to your empire. This is, in practice, a way to conquer enemy cities without firing a single shot.
If a Free City petitions to join your civilization, you will have the choice of accepting or rejecting their petition, with the following consequences:
Of course, Free Cities may eventually rejoin their previous owner if they take measures to increase Loyalty pressure in the region.
Free Cities can also be liberated to their original owner when captured. This will greatly improve [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29](diplomatic relations), and also lower the liberator's global {{Grievances6}} and provide a one-time bonus of {{DiplomaticFavor6}} in "Gathering Storm". Liberated cities are immune to Loyalty pressure from the liberator to prevent players from exploiting this mechanic, but a city that succumbs to Loyalty pressure from a third party can be liberated repeatedly.
Strategy.
Loyalty is a mechanic to which you might not need to pay much attention, unless you:
The Loyalty system was designed alongside that of Ages and Governors, and the effect of Ages on Loyalty is often underestimated. A {{DarkAge6}} is very damaging to Loyalty defense. Either in wartime or with contentious borders, the Ages of civilizations should be considered. Maintaining control of conquered cities might be impossible if you're in a {{DarkAge6}} and the opponent a {{GoldenAge6}}, yet straightforward if the Ages are reversed.
Loyalty defense.
If you are an expansionist or struggling to maintain Loyalty of your cities, try to:
Loyalty while conquering.
If you plan to conquer cities with military force, try to:
Dealing with the war weariness resulting from a campaign affecting the general happiness in all your cities including the newly-conquered ones can be difficult, especially when combined with the other factors or assaulting a new continent with no domestic pressure foothold, or attacking civilizations in superior Ages.
Loyalty attack.
A Loyalty attack can be executed peacefully or supported by pillaging. To try to "flip" cities, you can do the following to lower their Loyalty pressure:
Once the city's Loyalty pressure is negative, you can do the following to drive the city's Loyalty down to 0 and make it rebel faster:
Being in a better Age than your opponent makes Loyalty attacks easier to execute. An example of when to use a Loyalty attack is detailed [%23Pressure%20from%20nearby%20citizens](above).
All in all, the Loyalty mechanics offer great possibilities on one hand, and great problems on the other. They make it all but impossible to expand your empire by founding or conquering cities far from your own empire, and at the same time very close to other empires. If this is part of your strategy, you should plan to dedicate half your policy slots to cards that increase Loyalty, and at the same time move Governors to the new cities immediately after founding/conquering them. Keep your happiness levels as high as possible, and try to spread your religion (if you have one) to the new cities immediately (or even beforehand, in case you're conquering).
Trivia.
Here's the lead designer [Anton%20Strenger](Anton Strenger) on the subject:
The stakes of the new Loyalty system are huge because, at the extremes, it can flip control of entire cities to different players without military force. Low Loyalty in a city puts it at risk of rebelling and becoming a Free City. That, in turn, makes it a juicy target for other players looking to expand their own empire. Keeping your cities loyal not only keeps it on your side, but also emanates its Loyalty as a kind of “peer pressure” to other cities nearby. You could even sway cities from other civilizations to join you.
In previous "Civilization" games, there were ways to “Culture Flip” another player’s city without military intervention. We felt it was time to reexamine this non-militaristic way to change borders, and expand territory.
Loyalty also changes the landscape and strategy around the map as the game continues. What could have been an unchanging border between two civilizations in the base game becomes a contentious battleground of loyalties in the expansion, especially when Golden Ages or Dark Ages are involved.
Golden Ages and Dark Ages are a kind of loyalty bomb. In the best-case scenarios, triggering a Golden Age makes all of your citizens a little bit more loyal. Also, other cities nearby see the appeal of that civilization and may waver in their Loyalty to their current owner. The quickest and most direct way to boost Loyalty, though, is to send a Governor to the city.