# Lysefjord (Civ6)

Lysefjord is a three-tile impassable available in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" with the . Lysefjord may be found on and tiles. Each Wonder tile provides +1 and 2 to adjacent tiles.
Whenever a naval combat [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit) moves adjacent to Lysefjord for the first time, it is granted a free level.
In "", discovering Lysefjord grants +1 [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
Strategy.
Lysefjord can be really helpful (if not crucial) for militaristic maritime [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations). If you manage to build a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) next to Lysefjord, any of your naval units trained or purchased in the city will come with a free promotion!
Another way to make use of Lysefjord is to incorporate it into your empire, but don't build a Harbor right next to it: instead, gain the 2 or 3 first promotion levels for your units through [Combat%20%28Civ6%29](combat), then move them next to Lysefjord to get the top-tier promotions for them. (You'll also receive a small Era Score bonus for each unit that reaches its fourth promotion level.)
It's worth noting that units are able to earn additional promotions from Lysefjord after being upgraded. [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20melee](Naval melee units), for instance, can earn a total of 4 free promotions as long as you have access to this natural wonder throughout the eras. Likewise, when [Unit%20%28Civ6%29%23Combining%20existing%20units](combining units) to make Fleets and Armadas, absorb units that have already earned a free promotion into newly trained ones and sail them adjacent to Lysefjord for a total of two more promotions. In the hands of an organised player - with exclusive access to Lysefjord - it's possible to establish a conveyor belt of ships being combined into Fleets then promoted, combined into Armadas then promoted, upgraded and promoted until you end up with a highly experienced navy fit to defend (or topple) any thalassocracy.
If you aren't a big maritime civ, you should try to cut off your opponents' access to Lysefjord, especially if civs like the [English%20%28Civ6%29](English), the [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norwegians), the [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Dutch), or the [Ottoman%20%28Civ6%29](Ottomans) are in the game - you don't need their naval units to be any stronger!