# M. Gandhi (Civ1)

Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948), better known by the honorific (meaning "great soul"), was an Indian lawyer and activist. As the ideological leader of the , he is widely considered the of modern India. He leads the [Indian%20%28Civ1%29](Indians) in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](Sid Meier's Civilization)".
Normal Militarism
Total Threat Level: 1
Musical Theme Inspiration: "Gautama Ponders (original composition)"
Gameplay.
Gandhi is not very Expansionist unless first attacked by an opponent. Gandhi is more likely to demand tribute and, if refused, use that as an excuse to go to war rather than attack without provocation. He also has a Scientific trait which means he's somewhat likely to go to war if you refuse his demands for [List%20of%20advances%20in%20Civ1](technology).
Allegedly, there is a [Bugs](bug) which causes Gandhi's aggression to go to the maximum number of 255. When a player chooses [Democracy%20%28government%29%20%28Civ1%29](Democracy) as their [Government%20%28Civ1%29](government), it reduces other civilizations' aggression by 2; however, since Gandhi has 1 point of aggression, and subtracting 2 from 1 yields an invalid (negative) value, it immediately rolls over to 255. [Sid%20Meier](Sid Meier) denied the existence of this bug in , and it has no mention on the Internet prior to "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", where [Gandhi%20%28Civ5%29](Gandhi) has a high nuke rating.
Allegedly, it is relatively rare for this trait to be triggered in "Sid Meier's Civilization", as his nation is only an option if the player chooses to play against 6 other civilizations, and in that instant the world he inhabits will usually be too crowded to allow his perfectionist, friendly gameplay to survive. If the Indians are allowed to prosper by themselves on an island towards mid-game, their scientific prowess may make them a threat in the space-race. They are only a nuclear threat if they have democracy as a government and are already at war with you - they cannot declare war in this state without reverting back to another system of government, and therefore losing their aggression.
On [Earth%20%28map%29%20%28Civ1%29](Earth), the Indians have one of the best starting positions, with large expanses of [List%20of%20resources%20in%20Civ1](resourced) [Grassland%20%28Civ1%29](grasslands) to the south and east free to colonize. If you do not encounter the [Chinese%20%28Civ1%29](Chinese), the larger part of [Asia](Asia) is there to be claimed. They are also in a superb position to colonize the [Indonesian](Indonesian) archipelago, [Australia](Australia), Madagascar, and [Japan](Japan), if naval expansion is more to your liking.