# Machine Gun (Civ6)

The Machine Gun is an [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It upgrades from the [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannon) (or its replacements).
Strategy.
Despite being the most advanced ranged unit, the Machine Gun most commonly finds use as a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) garrison because of the military landscape at the time it appears. Unlike the [Artillery%20%28Civ6%29](Artillery) and the [Rocket%20Artillery%20%28Civ6%29](Rocket Artillery) that come into play around this time, the Machine Gun doesn't receive extra {{Range6}} from [Observation%20Balloon%20%28Civ6%29](Observation Balloons) and [Drone%20%28Civ6%29](Drones) and is thus unable to attack cities without exposing itself to retaliatory strikes. Players also unlock [Fighter%20%28Civ6%29](Fighters) and [Bomber%20%28Civ6%29](Bombers) in this [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era), which they can build in any city that has an [Aerodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Aerodrome). A Fighter costs 20 less {{Production6}} than a Machine Gun yet has 6 more {{Moves6}}, 3 more {{Range6}}, and 15 more {{RangedStrength6}} Ranged Strength and can attack land units and cities with impunity (unless an opponent has [Anti-Air%20Gun%20%28Civ6%29](Anti-Air Guns) or [Mobile%20SAM%20%28Civ6%29](Mobile SAMs)), whereas a Bomber costs 20 more {{Production6}} than a Machine Gun but has even greater {{Moves6}} and {{Range6}} than a Fighter and greater {{BombardStrength6}} Bombard Strength than a Rocket Artillery. Fighters are much better against units and Bombers much better against cities than Machine Guns, so [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) with access to {{Aluminum6}} have good incentives to start building an air force rather than relying on ranged units that are comparatively slow and weak.
The one advantage the Machine Gun has over the [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege) and [Air%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](air units) of its time is its lack of a [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resource) requirement. Players who don't have {{Oil6}} or {{Aluminum6}} and need to defend against an incoming enemy force may benefit from training or purchasing some Machine Guns to give their cities an extra attack and higher {{RangedStrength6}} Ranged Strength - they can create quite a strong defense network, especially when combined with Machine Guns that have earned some high-tier {{Promotion6}}s to form Corps and Armies. Players who've built Aerodromes and aircraft, however, will have little use for Machine Guns and can hold off on upgrading their Field Cannons until they have a large surplus of {{Gold6}}.