# Machinery (Civ6)

Machinery is a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by owning 3 [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers).
Strategy.
From the developing of engineering thinking to the gradual development of machinery it was only a matter of time and maturity. After all, the basics were there, the necessary sciences already in place. What was lacking was some genius or another to put them into practice.
And thus in the Middle Ages the first complex machines are invented: combinations of wheels, axles, levers, and other components which manage to transform different energies applied into useful motions. This allows the invention of the crossbow, which elevates ranged weaponry to a whole new level and finally gives it enough power to punch through thick iron armor.
This is an important tech, primarily from a military standpoint - it unlocks the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman), a next-gen [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged unit) that is far superior to the [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archer) and capable of decimating Ancient- and Classical-era units. Furthermore, a new siege [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Support](support unit) is invented, which is effective against the new [Medieval%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Walls); thus, Machinery is important for both warmongers and those defending against such. It also enables [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to construct the [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mill) - a [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) that increases the {{Production6}} potential of [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) - in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and "". The final innovation it makes is the incredibly strong [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani) in "Rise and Fall", which assists any [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory) path with its significant [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) boosts.
Beelining Machinery is not terribly difficult if you are already developing the lower part of the tech tree, although there is a certain strategy that will streamline it even further (and help build up your military to boot) detailed on [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29](this page). And it will lead to [Printing%20%28Civ6%29](Printing), with its awesome [Wonders%20%28Civ6%29](wonder)!