# Machu Picchu (Civ6)

Mountain tiles provide a standard adjacency bonus to {{Link6|Commercial Hub}}, {{Link6|Theater Square}} and {{Link6|Industrial Zone}} {{Link6|district}}s in all cities.
Machu Picchu is a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) in "". It must be built on [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) that does not contain a [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcano).
Strategy.
Machu Picchu is a very situational wonder. Since [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) next to Mountains are already limited in number, you won't often want to increase the competition on which [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts) should get priority placement next to Mountains. Of the three districts that this wonder affects, [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) benefit from it the most, since placing them next to wonders and [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes)/[Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Parks) is otherwise the only way to give them anything more than a minor [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus). The {{Production6}} bonus from [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) adjacent to Mountains can be significant, especially when you have a long and curvy mountain range; however, throughout numerous changes, the Industrial Zones can gain high adjacency bonuses so easily by just being placed between [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams) and [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts). An Industrial Zone built this way will start with +4 {{Production6}}, which is equivalent to being adjacent to four Mountains when Machu Picchu is built, and very rarely do you find such a spot in more than one [City%20%28Civ6%29](city). Lastly, it's easy to give [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) a large adjacency bonus after building this wonder; however, a +1 {{Gold6}} bonus is less valuable than a +1 {{Culture6}} or {{Production6}} bonus (especially when compared to every other [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource) or currency in the game up to this point), so it's never worth spending 400 {{Production6}} solely to earn a few {{Gold6}}.
Overall, there aren't many situations where Machu Picchu can truly shine. It doesn't directly help with a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory) because while extra adjacency bonus for Theater Squares is welcome, you are most likely doing really well in generating {{Culture6}} anyway if you want to win a Culture Victory, and there are much better ways to earn adjacency bonuses for Industrial Zones. Machu Picchu isn't really a core wonder to strive for no matter what strategy you're using, as it's highly [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) dependent and its bonus is nowhere near game-changing.
Ironically enough, the [Incan%20%28Civ6%29](Inca) should particularly avoid this wonder; they alone can work Mountain tiles for yields, and Mountain-adjacent [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) tiles can and usually should be used for their [Terrace%20Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Terrace Farms) rather than districts.
As a fun fact, this is the only [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) or Classical Era wonder that [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin Shi Huang) cannot rush, because [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) cannot move onto a Mountain tile, nor can [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineers) use their charges for the same reason. Also, Machu Picchu will become "snowy" if placed on a [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) Mountain.