# Madrasa (Civ6)

The Madrasa is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district), replaces the [University%20%28Civ6%29](University) and is unlocked with [Theology%20%28Civ6%29](Theology).
Strategy.
The most outstanding factor of the Madrasa is that it unlocks with Theology (a Classical [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic)) instead of [Education%20%28Civ6%29](Education) (a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology)). Just the fact that Education is a difficult technology to beeline while the path to Theology is short and straightforward (and Arabia is guaranteed to be able to trigger its ) means Arabia can start constructing this building a lot earlier than other civilizations with their regular University. However, since the Madrasa is no cheaper than the University, being able to build multiple Madrasas right after it is unlocked is a hard task. When playing with the expansions, you should combine the construction with [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) and some [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) chopping. Consider going straight for Theology after researching [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy) (for Tier 1 [Government%20%28Civ6%29](governments)), and maybe [Military%20Tradition%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tradition) (for [Maneuver%20%28Civ6%29](Maneuver) to build [Heavy%20Chariot%20%28Civ6%29](Heavy Chariots) and upgrade them into [Mamluk%20%28Civ6%29](Mamluks) later).
Compared to the University, the Madrasa provides 1 additional and some depending on the adjacency bonus of the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) it is in, which can be further boosted with the [Natural%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Philosophy) or [Five-Year%20Plan%20%28Civ6%29](Five-Year Plan) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards). The extra point of doesn't sound like much on its own but when combined with the fact that you unlock this building long before others get theirs, it becomes quite significant. The extra is obviously a nice boost to Arabia as a whole, and is especially synergistic with Saladin's bonuses to both and .
The biggest issue with the Madrasa is that it is way too expensive to be a Classical building. Arabia gets access to this unique University almost 1.5 eras sooner than everyone else, yet the price tag of this building (especially when considering the production infrastructure at this time is almost non-existent) means actually being able to build this is a struggle. This is the reason why you shouldn't wait until the last , since the last religion is never going to get Jesuit Education, a critical belief for Arabia. If you don't have Jesuit Education, establish Magnus in a city and try to chop out Madrasas.