# Magnus (Steward) (Civ6)

Magnus, otherwise known as The Steward, is one of the {{Link6|Governor}}s introduced in "". He excels at procuring resources, expanding your empire and boosting [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities') {{Production6}}.
Strategy.
Enterprising and capable, Magnus is able to procure valuable [Resources%20%28Civ6%29](resources) when needed. He is also quite skilled in optimizing the overall {{Production6}} in the city.
Magnus is one of the most powerful Governors in the right hands even without any promotions. Groundbreaker increases harvests by 50%, so having Magnus in a city with many [Resources%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus%20Resources](Bonus resources) or [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) and [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest) will provide a massive boost to your {{Production6}}, which can be critical in finishing [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders), [District%20%28Civ6%29](Districts), their accompanying buildings, or anything that counts toward the [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory).
Surplus Logistics is best used in your smallest city. To make full use of this promotion, send {{TradeRoute6}}s from your newer and smaller cities to your largest city to quickly grow the smaller city's population. This is especially useful if you do not have [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna's) [Contractor%20%28Civ6%29](Contractor) promotion (if you have Reyna at all). Couple this with the [Collectivization%20%28Civ6%29](Collectivization) [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) gained from researching [Class%20Struggle%20%28Civ6%29](Class Struggle), and your new city is already gaining at least +6 {{Food6}}.
Provision is best used in your largest city during the earlier eras of the game so that you can reliably pump out [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers) without losing too much {{Production6}}. In later eras where most of the valuable land has been settled, place Magnus in cities that have great potential for high {{Production6}} output that do not have an [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) yet.
Black Marketeer is useful in wartime. Even if you do not have, say, {{Oil6}} for a [Tank%20%28Civ6%29](Tank), you can still build one in Magnus's city, which may potentially turn the tide in your favor.
Vertical Integration is best used in a city surrounded by other cities. This will raise the chance that more of your Industrial Zones will affect Magnus's city and boost its {{Production6}}. If you can couple this with [Toronto%20%28Civ6%29](Toronto's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus, you may even receive more {{Production6}}.