# Mahabodhi Temple (Civ6)

Grants 2 [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles). 
The Mahabodhi Temple is a {{Link6|Classical Era}} {{Link6|Wonder}} in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on {{Link6|Woods}} adjacent to a {{Link6|Holy Site}} with a {{Link6|Temple}}, and you must have founded a {{Link6|Religion}}.
Strategy.
The Mahabodhi Temple is most useful to players who found a religion early on. The two [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles) can be used to enhance a religion while there are still many powerful [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29](beliefs) to choose from, and the {{Faith6}} can be spent on [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](units to spread it). In "", it's also the first available means of earning [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory) points. Similar to the [Statue%20of%20Liberty%20%28Civ6%29](Statue of Liberty), the Diplomatic Victory points are awarded upon completion, and not associated with the ownership of the wonder itself, so the points stay even if the wonder changes hands. As a decently strong wonder for both [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory) and Diplomatic Victory whose main bonuses are both one-time bonuses (excepting its +4 {{Faith6}} bonus), the Mahabodhi Temple is truly unique. This is only wonder in the game that functions like that, which means that if you want this wonder, you have to dedicate {{Production6}} to build it yourself - trying to capture it from other [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) is a sheer waste of effort.
Right now, the best synergy with this wonder comes with [Georgian%20%28Civ6%29](Georgia) and [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Mali), since they are the only two civilizations that have inclinations towards both Religious and Diplomatic Victory and thus can utilize both aspects of it well. [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia) can also benefit from the Mahabodhi Temple, which will help them quickly evangelize their religion and gain access to those cheap worship buildings.