# Maintenance (CTP1)

Each [Building%20%28CTP1%29](city improvement) has a maintenance cost that must be paid in [Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28CTP1%29](gold) at the beginning of each turn. The size of an improvement's maintenance cost correlates to the amount of [Production%20%28CTP1%29](production) required to create that improvement. Maintenance costs are deducted before [Wages%20%28CTP1%29](wages) are paid. If the total combined maintenance costs of all improvements exceeds the total gold being generated plus the amount in savings, improvements will be automatically sold off (starting with the most expensive) until the deficit has been eliminated.
Each [List%20of%20units%20in%20CTP1](unit) in the game has a support cost that must be paid from total production at the beginning of each turn. The size of a unit's support cost is determined by the production cost of the unit, the current [Military%20readiness%20%28CTP1%29](military readiness) setting, and whether or not the unit belongs to the [Special%20forces%20%28CTP1%29](Special Forces). If the total combined support costs of all units ever exceeds the [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20CTP1](Civilizations) production capacity, units will be automatically disbanded (starting with the most expensive) until the deficit has been eliminated.
Great Library entry.
Many Civilizations have overextended themselves by spending too much on internal projects and not paying enough attention to the mounting costs of economic development. At times like this, even a minor political, military, or natural disaster can result in complete economic collapse. Expensive endeavors undertaken in better times are abandoned or foreclosed on leaving a destitute nation to walk the hard road of economic recovery.
History has shown that the cost of supporting a large army in the field can be extraordinarily high. Not surprisingly, most nations will reduce the number and readiness of military forces in times of peace. Without the burden of high support costs, resources can be invested back into the economy and used to develop the Civilization's internal infrastructure.