# Maintenance (Civ2)

Maintenance or upkeep is a game mechanic in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)" modeling the operating costs required for {{Link|2|city improvement}}s and {{Link|2|unit}}s to function. Maintenance is automatically paid at the start of the player's {{Link|2|turn}}; if expenses exceed income (or [%23Support](support) exceeds {{Link|2|production}}), improvements will be {{Link|2|City|sec=Selling|sold}} and units [disband](disband)ed.
City maintenance.
Most city improvements incur a persistent upkeep cost. At the beginning of the player's turn, maintenance expenses are subtracted from the empire's gross {{Gold2|t|y}} income. If net taxes are positive, the surplus is added to the [treasury](treasury); if negative, the treasury pays the difference. Revenue and expenses are detailed in the {{Link|2|Trade Advisor}} screen ({{key|F5}}) and {{Link|2|Tax rate|tax settings}} ({{key|Shift}}+{{key|T}}); the former also tallies the number and upkeep of each improvement type.
If maintenance costs exceed available funds, city improvements are automatically {{Link|2|City|sec=Selling|sold}} to generate liquidity. Improvements are liquidated quasi-randomly, with more valuable improvements sold to pay off larger deficits. Unlike manual selling, a city can liquidate multiple improvements during the update phase.
Unlike "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)", Wonders that provide an improvement's effect (such as the {{Link|2|Pyramids}} for {{Link|2|Granary|granaries}}) do not waive the maintenance cost of existing improvements; these must be manually sold to reduce overhead.
Unit support.
If a city's net production is negative at the start of the turn, supported units will be randomly [disband](disband)ed until net {{Production2|s}} are 0 or higher, prioritizing those stationed outside the home city. Units stationed in a city do not reimburse their {{Production2|y}} value as they would if manually disbanded.
Units without a home city ({{mono|NONE}}) do not incur support costs of any kind.
Modding.
Improvement maintenance is defined at the third parameter of the relevant line in the {{mono|@IMPROVE}} section of {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Rules|Rules.txt}}. Wonders can also be assigned upkeep costs, although this is not used in the base game. Note that {{Link|2|Barracks}} maintenance increases by 1{{Gold2}} each if the player possesses {{Link|2|Gunpowder}} and/or {{Link|2|Mobile Warfare}}.
Unit maintenance is largely hard-coded. {{Food2|y}} upkeep is defined on Lines 6 and 7 under the {{mono|@COSMIC}} section of Rules.txt for "early" and "late" governments, respectively; free {{Production2|y}} support for Monarchy, Communism, and Fundamentalism are defined on Lines 14–16, respectively. Units with a Defense strength of 0 do not require production support, nor do any units with the {{Link|2|pre=cat|Trade units|Trade}} or {{Link|2|pre=cat|Espionage units|Espionage}} role.