# Malón Raider (Civ6)

The Malón Raider is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Light%20cavalry](light cavalry unit) of the [Mapuche%20%28Civ6%29](Mapuche) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
The Malón Raider excels at raids and defending Mapuche border [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) or attacking a nearby neighbor. It is unlocked with the same technology as the [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman), have the same {{Strength6}} Combat Strength, more mobile (since it is a light cavalry unit), and very slightly cheaper (10 less {{Production6}}). However, it is a standalone unique unit, so if you want an effective push with this unit, you need to commit your research to beeline for it. The [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) that boosts the production of this unit is [Chivalry%20%28Civ6%29](Chivalry), unlocked with [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right). A huge benefit of the Malón Raider is that it does not require any [Resources%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic%20Resources](strategic resources), regardless of game versions, so it won't put further strains on your limited resource pools against other units of the same era. Two or three Malón Raiders can lay waste to the {{District6}} and [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements) around an enemy city and then lay siege to it, preventing it from healing while other units chip away at its defenses or deal with enemy reinforcements.
Since this unit basically starts with the [Depredation%20%28Civ6%29](Depredation) {{Promotion6}}, the more {{Moves6}} it has, the scarier it gets. A {{General6}} is recommended, so you should invest some {{Production6}} in building Encampments (having an [Armory%20%28Civ6%29](Armory) triggers the {{Eureka6}} for [Gunpowder%20%28Civ6%29](Gunpowder), the technology that unlocks this unit). The [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel) is highly synergistic with this unit. The Malón Raider's main purpose is pillaging, and with the Grand Master's Chapel, every time you do so, you gain {{Faith6}}, which can be put back into purchasing even more Malón Raiders or other units. Being able to instantly purchase units is a number one strategy to counterplay the downside of having a standalone unique unit. Whenever you use this unit, remember to plug in [Raid%20%28Civ6%29](Raid), as it will massively boost the efficacy of pillaging. 
To clarify the {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus, if the Malón Raider attacks into or defends on tiles that are within a 4-tile radius of any tile that is considered "friendly territory," it will receive +5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength. The term "friendly territory" can be understood as anywhere you can upgrade your units or heal them at an accelerated rate: your own territory, your tributary city-states' territory or your Allies' territory. The radius of this ability is relatively large, allowing the Malón Raider to benefit from the territory of newly conquered cities and have an easier time pushing further into the heart of the opponent's empire. 