# Mamluk (Civ6)

The Mamluk is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Heavy%20cavalry](heavy cavalry unit) of the [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knight).
In the "" expansion, the Mamluk's {{Production6}} cost is increased from 180 to 220, its {{Gold6}} purchasing cost is increased from 720 to 880, its {{Gold6}} maintenance cost is increased from 3 to 4, and it requires 10 {{Iron6}} to train.
Strategy.
The power of the Mamluk lies in the fact that it can heal at the end of every turn, and how easily this ability can be compounded to become totally broken. Normally, a unit can only heal at the end of the turn if that unit has all its {{Movement6}} left, but that does not apply to the Mamluk, as it can heal at the end of every turn. However, how much they heal still depends on the territory they end their turn on: 20 HP inside City Centers, 15 HP on friendly territory, 10 HP on neutral territory and 5 HP on hostile territory. At a glance, this bonus does not seem too useful in conquest, since healing 5 HP at the end of a turn sounds trivial, and if you have to run away to heal then it defeats the purpose of having a unit that can heal after moving and attacking. What is so powerful about this is what you can add on top of this bonus to make your Mamluk borderline unkillable. 
First, it is important to note that this ability can be combined with other healing bonuses, most notably {{Scientist6}} [Abu%20Al-Qasim%20Al-Zahrawi%20%28Civ6%29](Abu Al-Qasim Al-Zahrawi) and a [Chaplain%20%28Civ6%29](Chaplain)-promoted [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostle). Both of these two function similarly to an early [Medic%20%28Civ6%29](Medic), where all adjacent units will heal 20 HP more if ending their turn next to them. And since Mamluk can heal at the end of every turn even after moving to attacking, the trivial 5 HP heal inside enemy territory now suddenly becomes 45 HP, almost equal to a Farm pillage every turn. It is also worth noting that {{GreatPeople6}} and religious units can stack on top of each other and on top of a military unit, which facilitates this healing even more. However, since the radii of these abilities are both 1, it can be hard sometimes to allow all Mamluk to simultaneously benefit off both of them, especially in a siege, when enemy {{District6}}s exert zone of control against both {{GreatPeople6}} and religious units. The good thing is cavalry units ignore zone of control, so make sure you don't put Al-Zahrawi and the Apostle in a formation and switch positions of your Mamluk so that the wounded ones get the most healing benefits. To get this to the next level, try [God%20of%20Healing%20%28Civ6%29](God of Healing) [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon). This is a largely useless pantheon and almost nobody ever picks it, but go for it if you want something new. Despite the tooltip, this pantheon grants an extra 30 HP when healing next to any Holy Site, not necessarily your own. That means when the Mamluk is fighting another religious civilization, it can heal 75 HP maximum if all of those conditions line up. In addition, any Mamluk that enters the [Fountain%20of%20Youth%20%28Civ6%29](Fountain of Youth) also receives a special {{Promotion6}} that allows them to heal 10 HP more every turn. Furthermore, Moksha's [Laying%20On%20Of%20Hands%20%28Civ6%29](Laying On Of Hands) can also combine incredibly well with this unit. This title allows all units on the city's territory to heal completely within a turn, so all you need to do is to establish Moksha inside the city nearest to the battlefield, preferably in a city you just captured. Moksha will keep its Loyalty high, just like every other {{Governor6}} Governors, but every Mamluk who ends its turn there will be fully heal, without even wasting a turn of fortifying. With this much healing, an army of Mamluks can actually survive quite well when sieging cities without siege units, since they can just heal up after slamming themselves into Walls.
[Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights) in general, and Mamluks especially, were an indomitable force of the medieval battlefield in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" at launch. A large series of direct and indirect nerfs have changed that:
Mamluks in general are still decent, as long as you get your hand on Al-Zahrawi and at least a Chaplain Apostle. After Feudalism (to trigger the {{Eureka6}} of [Stirrups%20%28Civ6%29](Stirrups)), head straight for [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right) to unlock [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy) and [Chivalry%20%28Civ6%29](Chivalry), and start taking advantage of the short window of relevance of Mamluks, before the construction of [Medieval%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) and [Renaissance%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Walls) everywhere.   