# Manhattan Project (Civ2)

The Manhattan Project is a {{Link|2|Modern World|Modern}}-era {{Link|2|Wonder}} in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)", available with the {{Link|2|Nuclear Fission}} {{Link|2|advance}}. It allows construction of {{Link|2|Nuclear Msl.}}s by all {{Link|2|civilizations}} in the game. It also enables {{Link|2|Spy|Spies}} to use the "{{Link|2|Espionage|sec=Plant Nuclear Device|Plant Nuclear Device}}" {{Link|2|espionage}} mission by civilizations possessing Nuclear Fission and {{Link|2|Rocketry}}.
Civilopedia entry.
The Manhattan Project was the code name for an intensive and costly research effort during World War II that resulted in the development of atomic weapons. The first two such weapons, the bombs dropped on Nagasaki and Hiroshima in 1945, brought an end to the second World War. For a short time, the United States held a monopoly on atomic weapons. However, by 1949 the Soviet Union had also developed similar technology, based in part on Manhattan Project information obtained through espionage. The nuclear standoff that has resulted from this balance of power may be largely responsible for the absence of major wars since World War II.
Modding.
The Manhattan Project enables construction of any {{Link|2|unit}} considered a nuclear weapon (Attack strength 99). Alongside the {{Link|2|Apollo Program}}, it is one of two Wonders whose effect is permanent, and not disabled if the Wonder is {{Link|2|Wonder|sec=Lost Wonders|lost}}.
The Manhattan Project prompts a unique notification on completion, defined at {{mono|@MANHATTAN}} in {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Popups|Game.txt}}.