# Mapuche (Civ6)

The Mapuche people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". They are led by [Lautaro%20%28Civ6%29](Lautaro), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are blue and cyan.
The Mapuche [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Toqui, which provides [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) with [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors) with +5% , +5% , and +10% combat experience for units trained in the city (with these yields tripling when the Governor is placed in a conquered city), and causes all cities within 9 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) of a city with an established Governor to gain +4 [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) per turn towards the Mapuche. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Mal%C3%B3n%20Raider%20%28Civ6%29](Malón Raider), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Chemamull%20%28Civ6%29](Chemamull).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 3 towards all [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) (except [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow) Mountains)"
The Mapuche can be a dangerous neighbor, since they are cultural civilization but perform best when combined with other domination strategies. Armed with the [Mal%C3%B3n%20Raider%20%28Civ6%29](Malón Raider) and their [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors), the Mapuche should seek to conquer the world and pick on civilizations who are at the peak of glory, with a cultural back-up thanks to their powerful [Chemamull%20%28Civ6%29](Chemamull).
Toqui.
"AoE Loyalty pressure from Governors".
Governors, for the Mapuche, play an exceptionally crucial role in their strategy. Managing effectively the limited number of Governor titles can be quite a challenge. On one hand, you want to maximize the number of cities with assigned Governors, meaning you would want to quickly recruit all 7. On the other hand, there are higher tier Governor titles that are of utmost importance for the Mapuche, most notably [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang's) [Parks%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Parks and Recreation), or [Amani%20%28Diplomat%29%20%28Civ6%29](Amani's) [Emissary%20%28Civ6%29](Emissary), [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala's) [Connoisseur%20%28Civ6%29](Connoisseur), and [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor's) [Garrison%20Commander%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison Commander). 
Moving Governors to cities on the frontier to keep them loyal is a common practice, since a Governor will add 8 Loyalty to the city they are in (remember that this Loyalty effect will kick in instantly after the assignment of the Governor, you don't have to wait 5 turns for this). As the Mapuche, each Governor provides an additional layer of Loyalty in the form of an area effect. Every city, Mapuche or foreign, within 9 tiles around a Mapuche Governor will receive 4 Loyalty towards Mapuche, with the exception of the city that Governor is currently in. This is incredibly useful for holding on to newly captured cities, since you most likely will wage wars on your opponent when they are in a Golden Age. In order to achieve this, move concurrently two Governors, one in the city to apply the normal 8 Loyalty, one nearby to apply the area effect. Note that the area effect only applies when the Governor is fully established, contrary to the normal Loyalty effect. There are two Governors that are slightly better at being used for this purpose:
Of course, this can also be used offensively, but to a much lesser extent, even when combined with Amani's Emissary. Foreign cities within 9 tiles of a Mapuche Governor will receive 4 Loyalty per turn towards the Mapuche (boosted to 6 if within 9 tiles of Amani with the Emissary Governor title). This is almost never enough to flip cities on its own, except for when the enemy is already having Loyalty issues. In normal cases, it maybe helps with forcing the enemy to assign their Governors in sub-optimal cities just to reinforce the Loyalty. Don't expect an [Eleanor%20of%20Aquitaine%20%28Civ6%29](Eleanor) level of Loyalty pressure, since this ability doesn't stack with itself, cities within range of multiple Mapuche Governors will only receive Loyalty pressure from one. 
"Extra and from cities with an established Governor".
Every city with a Governor will receive 5% extra and , a very minor and inconspicuous bonus. However, in cities that are not founded by the Mapuche, this bonus is tripled to 15% and , a lot more noticeable. This ability, on the surface, seems comparable to [Seondeok%20%28Civ6%29](Seondeok)'s ability, but it functions in the opposite direction (it is actually identical to how Seondeok used to work before the nerfs in ). Seondeok's ability scales by 3% of and for each title the Governor has, and since 3% yields in a large city will mean more than 3% yields in a smaller city, it is much more beneficial to invest titles in the same Governor and have them in the largest, most productive city than to spread out titles to multiple cities of different sizes. For the Mapuche, it is a simple yes/no question, if the city has an established Governor, it gains extra yields, so 5% yields of a small city will still be better than nothing. Therefore, the Mapuche prefers to spread the titles to multiple Governors. However, as it is pointed out above, 5% extra and is almost too insignificant to discuss, and the Mapuche does have important high tier titles to aim for, so the advice here is to try to aim for those high tier titles you need, and then only spread out to other less important Governors once you start conquering.
The [Casa%20de%20Contrataci%C3%B3n%20%28Civ6%29](Casa de Contratación) wonder is undoubtedly very powerful for the Mapuche. Without taking into account the obvious importance of 3 extra titles for a civilization that always hungers for more Governor titles, the Wonder adds 15% , and on top to cities with an assigned Governor that is not on your home [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent). If you conquer for long enough, you are bound to own cities that are not on your home continent. These cities will then receive 15% , , and 30% , even before using [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) that further help cities on foreign continents. For even more percentage yields, consider [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani) as well, as it is one of the strongest Wonders in the game.
"Extra combat experience for units trained in a city with a Governor".
Mapuche units gain an 10% extra experience when trained in a city with Governor, boosted to 30% extra if the city isn't founded by the Mapuche. Combined with buildings in the Encampment (or Harbor), a unit trained in a Governor city that isn't founded by the Mapuche gains an additional 105% experience, meaning they will earn s twice as fast.
One of the most noteworthy mention is your unique unit, the Malón Raider. It is unlocked with [Gunpowder%20%28Civ6%29](Gunpowder), the same technology of the [Armory%20%28Civ6%29](Armory). Since this is a standalone unique unit, it has to be built from scratch, but with boosted experience gained from this ability, the [Stable%20%28Civ6%29](Stable) and Armory, it can be a force to be reckoned with. Remember, the Mapuche, with their excellent Combat Strength bonus against civilizations in a Golden Age, does not need to wait for their unique unit to start a conquest. By the time Industrial Era arrives, you should have one or two conquered cities to pump out Malón Raider with high experience gains. 
A lot less common tactic but can be a great challenge is to use recon units, most notably the [Ranger%20%28Civ6%29](Ranger). Scouts and Skirmishers' Combat Strength stats are too low for their time, so they can get one-shot by the enemies if you are not careful. Rangers are a little bit sturdier against contemporary units, and it is unlocked in the same era as the Armory. Recon units do not benefit from tier 1 Encampment buildings, but benefit fully from the Armory and the [Military%20Academy%20%28Civ6%29](Military Academy). A Ranger trained in a conquered city with an Armory earns 55% extra experience, which can be boosted to 155% with [Survey%20%28Civ6%29](Survey), allowing them to reach [Ambush%20%28Civ6%29](Ambush) quite fast, which allows them to be great stepping stones for the [Spec%20Ops%20%28Civ6%29](Spec Ops). Generally speaking, Spec Ops is a terrible unit, as their Combat Strength and Ranged Strength are way too low for its era (the lowest in the Atomic Era, 10 Combat Strength and 20 Ranged Strength down from the second lowest, the [Machine%20Gun%20%28Civ6%29](Machine Gun)). However, the Ambush fixes (almost) everything, allowing Spec Ops to be both blazing fast and quite decent on the offense. Of course, they are not unstoppable especially if you cannot unlock them quickly, since units of this era are very powerful, but their speed allows excellent maneuverability to pillage, occupy strategic tiles and harass the enemy's backline.
Swift Hawk.
"Extra Combat Strength when fighting against civilizations in a Golden Age".
This is the most reliable aspect of Lautaro's ability, and it is definitely the one you have to play around the most. 10 extra Combat Strength for all units for the entire era is huge, it is almost comparable to an entire era of technology that you are ahead of your opponent. That is enough for you to dismantle any opponent, given that you are not too far behind in . 
When changing eras, you will be given the opportunity to see the Ages your discovered opponents will enter, thus allowed to plan accordingly. Although Ages tend to last for a decent number of turns on Standard speed (unless there is [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon) in the game to ruin your fun), you would normally have enough time to raise an army and launch your attack. However, it is more advisable to start doing in preparation for the next era, because it is entirely possible that the only opponents that will be in a Golden Age are far from you, which costs extra time marching your army. In that situation, the biggest challenge you will have is how to hold on to cities far from your core territory against the Loyalty pressure. Your army needs to be bigger than normal, so you can quickly conquer multiple cities at once, and use 2 Governors (one of them should be Victor with Garrison Commander) to exert doubled layer Loyalty pressure. The requirement for a larger standing army plus marching time, again, means you should start training your army before the era transition.
Although you cannot precisely know whether your neighbors will have a Golden Age next era or not, it can be somewhat predicted using your knowledge about other civilizations. If they unlock their unique unit, or unique infrastructure in this era, they are likely to earn a Golden Age next era. Therefore, civilizations with 2 uniques unlocked in the same era are very likely to hit a Golden Age next era, such as [Scythian%20%28Civ6%29](Scythia), [Nubian%20%28Civ6%29](Nubia), [Cree%20%28Civ6%29](Cree), [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt), [Sumerian%20%28Civ6%29](Sumeria), or [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedon). Empires that spawn and settle their next to a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder) are overwhelmingly likely to have a Golden [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era). Unique abilities that allow empires to perform certain tasks earlier than everyone else can also be an indicator. [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Maori) and [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norway) can cross oceans early (Maori is extremely likely to get a Golden Classical Era since they start the game with 2 free technologies). Spain can form Fleets and Armadas early, and the Zulus can do so for Corps and Armies. Civilizations that enjoy early seafaring, exploration (Maori, Norway, [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal), [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenicia)), or clearing Barbarians (Sumeria) can also be prime candidates. Later in the game, it is gradually becoming harder to predict this. However, you can always look at how well certain empires are doing and guess upon that. Did they just win a war and capture a lot of cities? Most likely Golden Age next era. On the contrary, do they only have 2 or 3 small cities left? Dark Age for them then. Turn on the yield ribbons underneath the leader icons and hedge those numbers against each other. Empires with high yields are productive and strong, so the Age they will end up in next era can be predicted. Also, you can look at the current Age they are in: civilizations that are currently in a Dark Age have a higher chance to be in a Golden Age next era and vice versa.
Religious units also benefit from this ability. If you manage to found a religion, your religious units can be really strong with 10 more Religious Strength. For this reason, you may want to combine domination with religion and pick the Crusade belief. Your religious units will be too strong to be fought against, and an additional 10 Combat Strength on top of the existing Golden Age bonus can help your army break anyone.
"Loyalty attacks and bonus Combat Strength against Free Cities".
This aspect sounds cool on paper, because it makes you feel like a less passive version of [Eleanor%20of%20Aquitaine%20%28Civ6%29](Eleanor of Aquitaine), but in theory, there is a lot that can go wrong. For every unit you kill inside an enemy city's borders, that city loses 20 Loyalty, or 40 Loyalty if the empire is in a Golden Age. After changes to how Loyalty flipping works, a city will only flip into a Free City if it satisfies two conditions:
The sufficient condition was not there when the Mapuche was first introduced in "", but it was implemented to counteract the [Cultist%20%28Civ6%29](Cultist), a new unit in the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode). That condition makes the ability seem worse, but actually, it allows the ability to be more under more control. In a conquest, killing units is an indispensable part, but before, killing too many units in a quick succession as Lautaro can easily flip a city ripe for the taking, turning it into a Free City with its own militia (and even Walls, if you play on high difficulty). However, now with the new sufficient condition in place, you are free to completely cripple a city by reducing its Loyalty to 0, and with that, applying a 100% reduction in all yields. This is incredibly powerful against empires in a Golden Age, since their cities will then be nothing but a burden and never flip. 
This can also be useful when the enemy is already struggling with Loyalty, particularly in a Dark Age. You can make the flipping process go a little bit faster by killing a few units, if the opportunity is there. You should go for it, if that empire is right next to you, and you are sure you are the one exerting the most Loyalty on those cities. When the cities flip into Free Cities, you gain 10 Combat Strength when fighting its militia, and when successfully killing units of the Free Cities, they will flip under your control. 
[Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) with the [Indie%20%28Civ6%29](Indie) can be especially useful when used in combination with this ability. Religious units killed in [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat) also reduces the Loyalty of the city. 
This ability does come with a mechanical quirk. In order for the Loyalty reduction to through, the Mapuche unit that does the killing needs to end its turn inside the city borders. For units with melee attacks, this hardly matters, since when they kill an enemy unit inside the city borders, the Mapuche unit will then displace the killed unit, thus will end up inside the borders, so the city will always lose Loyalty. However, for units with ranged attacks, since they do not displace the unit they kill, the Mapuche unit itself needs to stand inside the city borders for the Loyalty attack to go through. When standing inside, whether the unit with ranged attacks kill an enemy inside or outside the borders doesn't matter anymore, since the Mapuche unit will end its turn inside the borders anyway, so yes, a ranged Mapuche unit standing inside city borders killing a unit outside the borders will still reduce the Loyalty of the city.
Chemamull.
The Chemamull is a great improvement if you focus on a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory), as it provides both and (with [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight)) while giving a small boost to . It has very high potential for and if you can fit many in the same city, but at the same time, its restrictive placement requirement means it needs more planning than any other improvements in the game.
In the early eras, whether or not you can put down Chemamull after unlocking it is almost entirely up to chance. Chemamull can only be built on a tile with Breathtaking (4+) Appeal, and all you can do at this point to increase the Appeal rating of a tile is to build [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), or [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes), which is frankly not enough and maybe not the types of s you want to put down everywhere. Since you have to rely on your surroundings to give you what you want, settling spots with often high Appeal are coastal, next to a lot of [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) and [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), and especially, next to natural wonders. Turn on the Appeal [Lens%20%28Civ6%29](lens) to mark locations where Chemamull can be built, and refrain from putting Appeal-reducing improvements and s nearby, such as [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones), [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) and [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarries). Also, try to clear features that lower the Appeal of adjacent tiles, which are [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests) and [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marshes).
Later on, you can influence the Appeal rating of a tile by promoting [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang) to the [Parks%20and%20Recreation%20%28Civ6%29](Parks and Recreation) title, allowing you to build [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](City Parks). City Parks grant 2 Appeal to adjacent tiles, so a tile next to 2 City Parks and not adjacent to any Appeal-lowering factor is guaranteed to be Breathtaking. Once you are done with building City Parks in a city, move Liang to the next one. City Parks will lose some when Liang is no longer in the city but keep their Appeal-boosting properties in full. Also, when [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) is unlocked, you can plant Woods. Second-growth Woods grant 1 Appeal to adjacent tiles (except for the tile it is on). When combined with [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) and her [Forestry%20Management%20%28Civ6%29](Forestry Management) title ("" only), each Woods tile grant 2 Appeal to adjacent tiles. Different from City Parks, Woods can be planted next to one another. Nevertheless, keep in mind that Chemamull cannot go on top of Woods, so it is better to treat Woods in this case like an improvement: keep them 1 tile apart from one another so one or two Chemamull can snug in between.
Similar to all other Appeal-focused civilization, the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower) will greatly improve the utility of the Chemamull, and increases the number of tiles that Chemamull can be built on, as it gives 2 Appeal to all tiles in your empire. The [Golden%20Gate%20Bridge%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Gate Bridge) gives 4 Appeal to the city it is in, but to find a place to build this wonder will never stop being a conundrum. Two s that can improve Appeal of tiles inside a city are [Charles%20Correa%20%28Civ6%29](Charles Correa) and [Alvar%20Aalto%20%28Civ6%29](Alvar Aalto). Correa ([Information%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Information Era)) increases Appeal of all tiles in a city by 2, while Aalto ([Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era)) increases Appeal by 1, each has 1 charge. The [Mausoleum%20at%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ6%29](Mausoleum at Halicarnassus) effectively doubles the uses of both of these s, so the Mapuche should seriously consider this wonder. The increased Appeal of the two s stack with each other and stack with themselves if the Mausoleum is available and the player activates both charges of the same in the same city.
The yield of this improvement is dynamic: it will change if the Appeal of the tile changes. That means if later the Appeal rating of the tile drops below Breathtaking, the improvement will not be removed, but it will yield less . The of the Chemamull is always equal to 75% of the Appeal rating, rounded down, and it is possible for a Chemamull to yield 0 if the tile's Appeal drops too low. However, it can also be automatically adjusted in your favor if the tile's Appeal is raised after the improvement is put down.
Malón Raider.
The Malón Raider excels at raids and defending Mapuche border [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) or attacking a nearby neighbor. It is unlocked with the same technology as the [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman), have the same Combat Strength, more mobile (since it is a light cavalry unit), and very slightly cheaper (10 less ). However, it is a standalone unique unit, so if you want an effective push with this unit, you need to commit your research to beeline for it. The [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) that boosts the production of this unit is [Chivalry%20%28Civ6%29](Chivalry), unlocked with [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right). A huge benefit of the Malón Raider is that it does not require any [Resources%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic%20Resources](strategic resources), regardless of game versions, so it won't put further strains on your limited resource pools against other units of the same era. Two or three Malón Raiders can lay waste to the and [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements) around an enemy city and then lay siege to it, preventing it from healing while other units chip away at its defenses or deal with enemy reinforcements.
Since this unit basically starts with the [Depredation%20%28Civ6%29](Depredation) , the more it has, the scarier it gets. A is recommended, so you should invest some in building Encampments (having an [Armory%20%28Civ6%29](Armory) triggers the for [Gunpowder%20%28Civ6%29](Gunpowder), the technology that unlocks this unit). The [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel) is highly synergistic with this unit. The Malón Raider's main purpose is pillaging, and with the Grand Master's Chapel, every time you do so, you gain , which can be put back into purchasing even more Malón Raiders or other units. Being able to instantly purchase units is a number one strategy to counterplay the downside of having a standalone unique unit. Whenever you use this unit, remember to plug in [Raid%20%28Civ6%29](Raid), as it will massively boost the efficacy of pillaging.
To clarify the Combat Strength bonus, if the Malón Raider attacks into or defends on tiles that are within a 4-tile radius of any tile that is considered "friendly territory," it will receive +5 Combat Strength. The term "friendly territory" can be understood as anywhere you can upgrade your units or heal them at an accelerated rate: your own territory, your tributary city-states' territory or your Allies' territory. The radius of this ability is relatively large, allowing the Malón Raider to benefit from the territory of newly conquered cities and have an easier time pushing further into the heart of the opponent's empire.
Victory Types.
The Mapuche is a cultural civilization with an offensive, domination twist. A huge part of their gameplay depends on the first few eras, whether or not they can take advantage of the Golden Age bonus Combat Strength to take out some of their neighbors or not. An empire-wide 10 Combat Strength is huge and it can be enough for the Mapuche to snowball. If their next door neighbors are doing poorly and repeatedly fail to reach a Golden Age, they can weaponize the Loyalty attack method against civilizations who are in a Dark Age; otherwise, their civilization ability will be very underwhelming if they are unable to capture any city from their opponents.
Of course, you can also rely on the potential of the Chemamull for a Cultural Victory. Despite being highly restrictive in terms of placement, it can generate a huge amount of very early on, if you know how to play around them. You can combine it with your domination prowess to cripple any enemy who is generating too much as well.
A Religious Victory is also not too far out of reach. Your religious units do receive 10 Religious Strength against civilizations in a Golden Age, and killing units in a theological combat do damage the city's Loyalty. Not to mention, Holy Sites raise the Appeal of adjacent tiles, so if you want to make it the main to be put down in every city, the Chemamull will benefit from it. And it should go without saying that the Crusade belief will make your army even scarier, if you want to combine religion with your domination power.
Counter Strategy.
The best strategy to stay safe from the Mapuche is to be as far away from them as you can, because the main threats they pose are conquest and Loyalty pressure, both of which are difficult to exert over long distances. However, it would be ridiculous to simply restart your game until the Mapuche are far away. Therefore, here follows a practical guide to defending against the Mapuche should they spawn nearby.
First, though it may seem like a terrible idea, it may be worth it to intentionally avoid getting Golden Ages. No amount of bonus yields or points make up for the formidable +10 Combat Strength granted to the Mapuche should they find it a good time to invade. However, aiming for a Dark Age on purpose is also foolhardy, since a Dark Age's penalties to Loyalty pressure are compounded upon by Lautaro's penalties.
The second item on your list of priorities should be an escape attempt. Expand as far away from the Mapuche as you can if you want to be safe from them; so many of their bonuses are better when their wars are waged right by Mapuche territory. In particular, beware the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era), since the Malón Raider gains even greater Combat Strength bonuses when nearby Mapuche lands.