# Marine (CTP2)

The Marine is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20CTP2](unit) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
What sets the Marine apart from other units is its ability to move and attack immediately after unloading from a Naval Transport vessel, or jumping out of an airplane. Whereas other infantry units must first land before beginning their assault, the Marine hits the ground running, striking targets with alacrity.
Great Library entry.
A stalwart and fierce component of modern combat operations, the marine traced its roots back to the 5th century BC. In their writings, Greek historians Herodotus and Thucydides referred to epibatai, heavily armed sea soldiers in the Greek fleets. In the 3rd-2nd century BC, the Greek statesman Polybius described a type of Roman soldier, called milites classiarii ("soldiers of the fleet"), who were trained and armed especially for service aboard Roman warships. In the Middle Ages, standard soldiers often sailed aboard ships to bolster attack and boarding capabilities. In the 17th century naval wars, the British and Dutch each raised the first distinct and organized corps of modern marines: the Royal Marine (1664) and the Koninklijke Nederlandse Corps Mariniers (1665), respectively. Although other countries maintained marine corps, by far the most famous organization of this kind was the United States Marine Corps.
Founded in 1775 as a separate military service within the U.S. Department of the Navy, the USMC was primarily charged with seizure and defense of advanced bases and with land and air operations related to naval campaigns. It was also responsible for service aboard certain naval vessels, as well as providing security for shore installations and U.S. diplomatic missions in foreign countries. Above any other duty, however, the marines specialized in amphibious attacks, such as those undertaken against Japanese-held islands in the Pacific during World War II. The USMC participated in every war of the United States, often being the first, or among the first, to fight, executed more than 300 landings on foreign shores and served in every major U.S. naval action since 1775.