# Maryannu Chariot Archer (Civ6)

The Maryannu Chariot Archer is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged%20cavalry](ranged cavalry unit) of the [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egyptian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Heavy%20Chariot%20%28Civ6%29](Heavy Chariot).
In the "" expansion, the Maryannu Chariot Archer becomes a standalone unique unit and no longer replaces the Heavy Chariot.
Strategy.
The Maryannu Chariot Archer is a very powerful early game unit. On flat terrain, its is unmatched by any standard unit of its time and equaled only by the [War-Cart%20%28Civ6%29](War-Cart) and the [Saka%20Horse%20Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Saka Horse Archer), neither of which can compete with the Maryannu Chariot Archer's and high Ranged Strength. Its drawbacks are its high and maintenance costs, but a few Maryannu Chariot Archers can form the base of a strong military in the early game.
Despite its classification as a ranged cavalry unit, the Maryannu Chariot Archer can only benefit from the [Agoge%20%28Civ6%29](Agoge) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) and its upgrades. In "Gathering Storm", it becomes independent, so Egypt can train [Heavy%20Chariot%20%28Civ6%29](Heavy Chariots) and doesn't have to rely on [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors) as the only frontline option to back up its Maryannu Chariot Archers in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era). All the same, [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee units) also benefit from Agoge, so the Egyptians are advised to slot this policy card as they begin building their army.
In the expansions, the Maryannu Chariot Archer's high cost makes it a unit that the Egyptians will either train once for the +4 [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) and then ignore, or train in numbers and then go to war to get something out of their investment. A neighboring opponent who hasn't focused on building up his or her empire's defenses will easily fall prey to a few Maryannu Chariot Archers with melee or cavalry support.