# Maui (Civ6)

Maui is a [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29%23Heroes](Hero) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". He is exclusive to the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack).
Strategy.
Like all Hero units, Maui's {{Strength6}} Strength increases with the progression of the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), as shown in the table below.
"Note: Since the [Civilization%20VI%20February%202021%20Update](February 2021 Update), when playing with the [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29](Monopolies and Corporations) game mode, Maui's Inventions can only spawn luxury resources that are already on the map. Because of this update, he becomes weaker on smaller [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) sizes, since there are fewer [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continents) and thus fewer luxury resources he can spawn. The data tabulated below are the most accurate on Huge maps (which in general have access to all luxury resources spread across 6 continents). The smaller the map is, the slightly more likely Maui will spawn bonus resources, since the number of possible luxury resources is bound to continents and map generation but the number of bonus resources is not. However, these numbers can still be used as guidelines to see which terrains/features have the highest possibilities of hosting a luxury resource."
Maui is an interesting Hero: while he looks underwhelming at first, he can help bolster your territory with new luxury resources without being limited by the maximum number of luxuries on one [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent). There are two main methods of using Maui effectively that every [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) can apply.
The first popular use is to send him to [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and use him to spawn Resources in the surrounding [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tiles so that you can build a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) with a good [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus). However, since the spawned resource is chosen randomly from the possible resources for the tile, and there are two possible bonus resource choices and three possible luxury resource choices on a Coast tile, the chance of you having a luxury resource per {{ActionCharges6}} Charge is 60% - pretty low. Up to +7 adjacency bonus is possible with a Harbor adjacent to the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center). With a [Shipyard%20%28Civ6%29](Shipyard), the adjacency bonus also provides {{Production6}} which can be tripled by establishing [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) with the [Harbormaster%20%28Civ6%29](Harbormaster) title and using a policy card such as [Naval%20Infrastructure%20%28Civ6%29](Naval Infrastructure).
The second use is purely to maximize the number of luxury resources you can possibly get out of the 4 {{ActionCharges6}} Charges. Maui is an early-game oriented Hero; his {{Strength6}} Combat Strength is the lowest among non-ranged Heroes, and his ability doesn't scale well into the mid- and late game, especially when you think of the hefty amount of {{Faith6}} spent to recall Heroes. Therefore, you'll want Maui to be your first Hero, or second at the latest, and his job will only be focusing on improving the yields and {{Amenities6}} of your early empire. You should use him to spawn as many luxury resources as possible, and then save your {{Faith6}} to recall a more useful Hero later in the game. Since the likelihood of getting a bonus resource or a duplicate luxury resource increases the more often you recall Maui, a diminishing return with an escalating {{Faith6}} cost is guaranteed.
The most obvious spots for Maui to use his ability are [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) (9 out of 10 odds) and [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest) (9 out of 10 odds) terrain features. [Marsh%20%28Civ6%29](Marsh) (2 out of 3 odds) has a low diversity of resources and is good for discovering {{Sugar6}} and {{Truffles6}}. The final terrain feature that can host resources is [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reef), which can only host {{Turtles6}} and {{Fish6}}, resulting in a low (50%) chance of spawning a luxury; therefore, you may be better off creating resources on a non-Reef water tile if you already own {{Turtles6}}.
As long as Woods, Rainforest, Marsh, or any other terrain feature is present on a tile, the underlying terrain doesn't influence the chance to spawn a luxury resource.
If no features are present:
At a glance, as long as the tile doesn't contain a feature, [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) tiles are a lot worse than their flat variants, and [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) and [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) have a better chance for a luxury resource than Grassland and Plains. Desert tiles have a 100% chance for a luxury resource but none of the 4 possible luxuries is one that boosts growth, a problem Desert cities often have, so only a handful of civilizations that can take advantage of this. If no resource can be produced, {{Bananas6}} are created instead, which don't spawn in Deserts in normal scenarios. However, since you would like those luxuries to be different from one another, resource diversity of different terrain types is also worth considering, although it is not as important as the percentage chance above. For example, a [Desert%20Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Floodplains) tile has a 66.67% chance of spawning a luxury, but there are only 2 types of luxury that can be spawned on this terrain ({{Sugar6}} and {{Cotton6}}), so if you activate Maui on 3 Desert Floodplains tiles, you are bound to get a duplicate, which is not ideal; on the other hand, [Tundra%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra Hills) tiles only have 50% chance for a luxury, but since 3 possible luxuries can spawn there ({{Diamonds6}}, {{Gypsum6}}, and {{Silver6}}), using Maui 3 times still has a low 12.5% chance of giving you all 3 luxuries. Considering that the more times Maui uses his ability, the more likely you are to end up with a bonus resource or a duplicate luxury, it is best to use him only once to enhance your early cities and never bring him back.
Maui's ability cannot be used on tiles containing unrevealed strategic resources (as this would destroy them) or hidden {{LeyLine6}}s. This can be useful for city and district planning by use of map tacks.
Maui is a great starting Hero for every civilization and [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leader) that is more focused on building rather than conquering in the early game. An exception to this is [Montezuma%20%28Civ6%29](Montezuma,) who will use Maui to boost his military power by creating more luxuries. Maritime civilizations can use him to boost their Harbors and then get the Free Inquiry [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age) Dedication to boost their [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical) and/or [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era){{Science6}} output, most notably [English%20%28Civ6%29](England) and [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenicia) with their unique Harbors. [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norway) also loves Maui, since their [Stave%20Church%20%28Civ6%29](Stave Church) can convert all of these water resources into {{Production6}}; coupled with the fact that they love to choose [God%20of%20the%20Sea%20%28Civ6%29](God of the Sea) as their [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon), Norway is actually incentivized to keep bringing back Maui to turn all of their coastal cities into bustling industrial centers. Similarly, [Indonesian%20%28Civ6%29](Indonesia's) [Kampung%20%28Civ6%29](Kampung) gets stronger with each adjacent [Fishing%20Boats%20%28Civ6%29](Fishing Boat). The [Mayan%20%28Civ6%29](Maya) and [Scottish%20%28Civ6%29](Scotland) both benefit greatly from Maui as well - the former because they get more {{Amenities6}} out of luxuries by settling cities next to them, and the latter because they get a massive boost in {{Science6}} and {{Production6}} from having high {{Amenities6}}. [Cleopatra%20%28Civ6%29/Ptolemaic](Ptolemaic Cleopatra) can add resources to Floodplains tiles and gain extra {{Food6}} and {{Culture6}} from them, and these tiles can produce immense yields over time as flooding fertilizes but does not damage [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egyptian) rivers. Finally, [Catherine%20de%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29/Magnificence](Magnificence Catherine) is the only leader who can get a tangible benefit from duplicate luxury resources thanks to her [Court%20Festival%20%28Civ6%29](Court Festival).