# Mekewap (Civ6)

The Mekewap is a unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) of the [Cree%20%28Civ6%29](Cree) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It must be built adjacent to a [Resources%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus%20Resources](Bonus) or [Resources%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury%20Resources](Luxury Resource).
Strategy.
The Mekewap is a solid tile improvement, as it provides extra , , , and from the very beginning of the game yet still scales incredibly well into mid- and late game. As the Cree, it is vital that [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery) is the first technology they research, since it unlocks a free and a Trader, altogether with this improvement. Afterwards, there are two main checkpoints that the Cree should aim for quickly, [Civil%20Service%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Service) and [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography). With Civil Service, a Mekewap provides as much as a [Sewer%20%28Civ6%29](Sewer), and with Cartography, each Mekewap also provides for each adjacent Luxury Resource (both of these will also synergize incredibly well with Poundmaker's ability and the Cree's tendency towards exploration in general, so you would want them unlocked as quickly as possible anyway). Specifically, a Mekewap will provide 3 if adjacent to 1 Luxury Resource, 5 if adjacent to 2, 7 if adjacent to 3, etc. Overall, since most of the Cree bonuses wane quickly in mid- and late game, the Mekewap stands out as an exception. This is the vessel of victory of the Cree, albeit not very obvious. High Population allows them to pursue a Scientific Victory while high output makes a Diplomatic Victory possible. Cree players should seek out resource-rich areas in which to settle and put their [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) to work right away.