# Merchant Navy (Civ5)

Merchant Navy is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the tree and requires [Naval%20Tradition%20%28Civ5%29](Naval Tradition). In "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" it got moved to the [Exploration%20%28Civ5%29](Exploration) tree and requires and [Maritime%20Infrastructure%20%28Civ5%29](Maritime Infrastructure).
The formal establishment of a Merchant Navy, that is, a fleet of dedicated trading vessels built according to the latest maritime innovations, can greatly boost a seafaring nation's wealth. Since the navy is supported by the merchants, it doesn't cost the state anything - on the contrary, it increases its wealth, alongside that of the merchants themselves! The greatest manifestation of that increase comes with the establishment of the [East%20India%20Company%20%28Civ5%29](East India Company), the nation's chief foreign trade institution, which attracts not only merchants, but also frugal engineers and even artists to its parent city.
Strategy.
This is the first Policy which reveals the double nature of the [Exploration%20%28Civ5%29](Exploration) tree: to boost both seafaring prowess and output. Another great policy, it manifests more benefits the more [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) with maritime buildings you have. The +3 bonus per city is a considerable increase, since it is a base output which is further increased by economic buildings, such as the [Market%20%28Civ5%29](Market).
Also, try to build the [East%20India%20Company%20%28Civ5%29](East India Company) ASAP after adopting this Policy. Note that the relevant bonuses are not restricted to coastal cities - they will apply no matter where the national wonder is built.