# Merchant Confederacy (Civ5)

Merchant Confederacy is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It was added in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" when it replaced . It is part of the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) tree and requires [Scholasticism%20%28Civ5%29](Scholasticism) and [Consulates%20%28Civ5%29](Consulates).
Another facet of cooperation with independent [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states) is the formation of a commercial union between traders of a particular country and various City-States, often referred to as a Merchant Confederacy. This organisation undertakes to protect its members, facilitate agreements with local suppliers, smooth over bureaucratic barriers and even defend merchant caravans and vessels from brigands. As a result, there is a boost in profits from all trade undertakings between entities in the Confederation. 
Strategy.
This is a level 3 Policy, which requires practically all other Policies in the tree. This naturally makes it the final Policy with which a player completes the tree. Interestingly enough, its effect is somewhat less useful than other Policies, which further justifies adopting it last. 
To make the most of this Policy, you should trade almost exclusively with [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states). But apart from that, you should aim to combine it with both [Wagon%20Trains%20%28Civ5%29](Wagon Trains) from the [Commerce%20%28Civ5%29](Commerce) tree and [Treasure%20Fleets%20%28Civ5%29](Treasure Fleets) from [Exploration%20%28Civ5%29](Exploration), which also increase income from land and sea trade routes (respectively). Also, you should make sure someone doesn't push the Embargo City-States resolution through the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress). 
If you feel that this is too much trouble, save yourself some stress and don't worry about it. Just enjoy the boost from this one Policy...unless you happen to be developing those other two trees as well.