# Mercantilism (Civ5)

Mercantilism is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the [Commerce%20%28Civ5%29](Commerce) tree and requires . In "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" it requires [Mercenary%20Army%20%28Civ5%29](Mercenary Army).
The introduction of mercantile practices in a nation adds a protective layer of taxes and bureaucratic procedures for goods imports and foreign traders which aims at promoting national trade, instead of depending on foreign merchants. The result is a very satisfied national merchant class, and they return the favor by providing additional financing for local governments when they wish to finish quickly some projects. Another beneficial effect is observed in the nation's financial institutions, such as banks and stock exchanges, in which young economists dig into the scientific basis of trading and produce some amazing research results. If not additional wealth...
Strategy.
This is the most useful Policy of the entire Tree, hands down! It both boosts Science output for every economic building, and reduces Gold cost for all purchases with Gold in all cities! You are now able to use even more effectively all the Gold you earn through the other Policies in the tree - start purchasing important [Building%20%28Civ5%29](Buildings), instead of wasting turns to Produce them! This is especially useful in new cities, where Production capabilities are initially low. 
Being a level 2 Policy, you can easily rush it by first adopting [Mercenary%20Army%20%28Civ5%29](Mercenary Army). If you've managed to progress scientifically fast enough, and [Commerce%20%28Civ5%29](Commerce) is your second tree, you should do exactly that. This way you will be able to use the [Landsknecht%20%28Civ5%29](Landsknechts), while at the same time gaining a significant boost to your mid-game Science output. Don't hesitate to start buying [University%20%28Civ5%29](Universities) right away - the tech progress boost is well worth the Gold cost, which is - surprise, surprise! - not that great anymore!
And of course, to make the most of this Policy, make sure you have as many buildings from the Commercial chain as possible (refer to the description above). 