# Military Tactics (Civ6)

Military Tactics is a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by killing a [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit) with a [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman).
In "", it leads to [Mass%20Production%20%28Civ6%29](Mass Production).
Strategy.
For quite a long time war was a simple affair: amass as many men as you can, arm them as heavily as you can, then hurl that snarling mass of sharp things and yelling bearded madmen at the enemy yelling bearded madmen.
But somewhere along the way someone figured out they can do better. That hitting a weakened enemy line with cavalry in the right moment will cause the men there to disperse, which will wreak havoc in the enemy morale, which will cause their entire army to abandon the battle. And so military tactics was born.
The long-term implications of tactics on the battlefield are, of course, enormous, but its immediate benefit is the recognition of the cavalry as the single most dangerous force on the battlefield, and consequently the invention of the [Pikeman%20%28Civ6%29](Pikeman) - a heavily armed soldier, specifically designed to withstand the terrifying cavalry charge.
Along with [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery), Military Tactics is one of the two earliest technologies that unlock a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) unit, and it is slightly easier to beeline (you need [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery), then [Writing%20%28Civ6%29](Writing), then [Currency%20%28Civ6%29](Currency), then [Mathematics%20%28Civ6%29](Mathematics), whereas Machinery requires an extra technology). However, the [Pikeman%20%28Civ6%29](Pikeman) isn't that much stronger than the [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman) unless it's facing cavalry. You should go for it if you desperately need a great counter to cavalry; otherwise, you have little incentive to rush this tech. [Huey%20Teocalli%20%28Civ6%29](Huey Teocalli) is good [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder), but its bonuses depend heavily on [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) availability, so you will have few good options to use it.
All in all, if you want early progression, go for Machinery instead, which unlocks more interesting stuff overall.