# Military Caste (Civ5)

Military Caste is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the [Honor%20%28Civ5%29](Honor) tree and requires [Discipline%20%28Civ5%29](Discipline).
After a Military Caste system is introduced in a society, the strict separation of military and civilians promotes both peace of mind for the civilians and greater concentration for the soldiers. This often finds expression in unique art forms which increase local Culture.
Strategy.
This Policy functions similarly to [Oligarchy%20%28Civ5%29](Oligarchy) in the sense that its bonus appears only if a Unit is stationed in the city. The bonus itself is quite different, though, and more useful in peaceful times than during wars (when you want most of your army away from your cities).
One great way to use Military Caste is to station a unit in each new city you settle, so that it starts gaining territory right away (thanks to the +2 bonus, which applies both locally and on empire level). And of course, the extra is always handy. Bottom line - always keep units garrisoned in all your cities when you're not using these units for other purposes.
A more general benefit of Military Caste, especially if you rush it (taking it as a third Policy immediately after [Discipline%20%28Civ5%29](Discipline)) is to use it as an early game booster for social progress. This will work better the more cities you have (each one adding +2 ), although you must remember that each new city also increases the cost of subsequent Policies. You will need to strike a fine balance.