# Military Engineering (Civ6)

Military Engineering is a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) [Technologies%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building an [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct).
Strategy.
With engineering all the rage in the Middle Ages, it was only a matter of time until it got a specialized military application branch. The development of weapons and countermeasures led to the need to develop countermeasures to the countermeasures, and so on. And here it is where it became obvious that a special corps of half-scientists, half-builders would be needed on the battlefield. Enter the [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineer) - the best friend of a wise general.
But it didn't stop there, of course. The [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) gained a new building, specifically concentrated on providing technical support for military purposes: the [Armory%20%28Civ6%29](Armory). Finally, the first [Resources%20%28Civ6%29](Resource) of the next-generation military tech was revealed: .
Military Engineering is an important tech overall, because of its revealing a new Strategic resource (which has very nice yields, even if you don't consider its military applications). But militaristic civs will want it quickly anyway, because of the Armory building it unlocks, which will further boost your army's rate of acquiring Promotions. Plus, it leads to Gunpowder, which provides the next-gen frontline unit, the Musketman. To beeline for it, you need to research the central part of the tech tree, which usually happens naturally; then from Construction go straight to Military Engineering to get an instant economic boost.