# Minas Geraes (Civ6)

The Minas Geraes is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20ranged](naval ranged unit) of the [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazilian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Battleship%20%28Civ6%29](Battleship) and is unlocked with [Nationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Nationalism).
In the "" expansion, the Minas Geraes requires 1 to train and 1 per turn to maintain.
Strategy.
The Minas Geraes is not only stronger than the Battleship it replaces, but also available a whole [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) earlier (that is, if you keep your [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) development going strong). This gives the Brazilian player an incredible edge, if they know how to use it right!
Of course, in order to use this edge, you need a developed maritime infrastructure, able to produce enough ships to make a difference in battle. Go on the offensive and show that Brazilians know other stuff besides how to dance and have fun! Helpfully, the Minas Geraes benefits from the bonus from [Press%20Gangs%20%28Civ6%29](Press Gangs) - normal Battleships only get a bonus from [International%20Waters%20%28Civ6%29](International Waters), which arrives far later. That said, the easiest way to produce many Minas Geraes is still to have built the [Venetian%20Arsenal%20%28Civ6%29](Venetian Arsenal) beforehand, which should not be difficult considering most players rate it low priority unless playing on a water-heavy [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map), and most [AI](AI) [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) won't prioritize or even have a viable tile to place it.
The increased anti-air capacity of these ships will allow them to easily tear into air power, and to an extent, [Aircraft%20Carrier%20%28Civ6%29](Aircraft Carriers). However, they are still vulnerable to [Submarine%20%28Civ6%29](Submarine) attacks. Nevertheless, the Minas Geraes is, relatively speaking, the most powerful naval unit in the game, and can easily net Brazil a coastal empire in the same era that it is produced in.
Finally, note that while the Minas Geraes is unlocked through the civic tree, in the "Gathering Storm" expansion it requires , which is unlocked with a [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) ([Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization)) in the same era. As such, pure output is not enough to rush this unit - you will need as well. Fortunately, Industrialization is a direct prerequisite for [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight), a vital technology for cultural civs, and because just one Minas Geraes will confer its strength to the defenses of all your cities, you will become a harder target for even land invasions!