# Mind Flower (CivBE)

In ', the Mind Flower [Wonders%20%28CivBE%29](wonder) is used to achieve [Victory%20%28CivBE%29](Transcendence Victory).
To build the Mind Flower, two prerequisites must be met. First, the faction needs 15 points in its [Harmony%20%28CivBE%29](Harmony) affinity (or 13 without DLC). Second, the faction must have acquired three [Tech%20Web%20%28CivBE%29](technologies): [Transgenics%20%28CivBE%29](Transgenics), [Swarm%20Intelligence%20%28CivBE%29](Swarm Intelligence), and [Nanorobotics%20%28CivBE%29](Nanorobotics). Meeting these criteria makes the Mind Flower wonder becomes available for building, though it still must consume 4 [Xenomass%20%28CivBE%29](Xenomass) resources to be built.
The Mind Flower can be constructed on an owned tile within 5 distance of the selected city, similar to the [Emancipation%20Gate%20%28CivBE%29](three) [Exodus%20Gate%20%28CivBE%29](other) [Beacon%20%28CivBE%29](wonders) that can lead to victory. Any prior improvement (except [Roads%20%28CivBE%29](road)s and [Magrails%20%28CivBE%29](magrail)s) and resource on the selected tile is removed. City Connections from roads or magrails which go through that tile are maintained, but units cannot pass through the tile itself. The tile may still be worked by the city for the base unimproved value for that type of tile.
Upon completion of the Mind Flower wonder, a turn countdown is initiated and can be tracked in the Victory tab. When the countdown reaches zero, the one who built the Mind Flower wins the "Transcendence Victory". Possession of [Mind%20Stem%20%28CivBE%29](Mind Stem) and [Xeno%20Sanctuary%20%28CivBE%29](Xeno Sanctuary) buildings will accelerate the turn countdown only if built before the Mind Flower.
The tile containing the Mind Flower can be attacked and destroyed by enemy units. If it is destroyed, the Mind Flower must be reconstructed to continue with Transcendence Victory (turn countdown is frozen).