# Mine (Civ6)

The Mine is a standard in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It requires and may be built on any featureless , [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil) or on certain s. If it is built on Luxury or Strategic Resources, then the will gain use of that resource.
Strategy.
The Mine is, as always, one of the most important improvements for your empire. It is your earliest and most reliable booster and gives access to most [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resources) in the game.
Its greatest advantage is that it may be built on any Hill tile, right from the start of the game (or more accurately, after you research one of the first techs), and these are "very" common. Also, a relatively early tech, [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship), boosts its yield, which is very important in the middle game.
Normally, a Mine cannot be built on a tile with [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) or [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest), but an exception is made if any mineable resource (such as ) or late-game Strategic Resource (such as ) is found on such a tile. In this case the Mine will be built and the feature preserved - which will also preserve its bonus, of course.
Use Mines not only to increase the basic output of cities, but also to provide [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) to your [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) - each Mine provides a +1 bonus (+½ in ""). If you have a city controlling a large expanse of Hills, you may build Mines over all of them, excluding a spot in the center, where you can place an Industrial Zone for a whopping increase in !
As of "Gathering Storm", the evolving opportunities provided by [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil) (especially when it comes to previously unsuitable flat tiles) are yet another consideration when deciding where to place Mines.
Building a Mine over any resource unlocks the for [Wheel%20%28Civ6%29](Wheel). Building three Mines triggers the for Apprenticeship. Building a Mine over triggers the for [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working). Building a Mine over triggers the for [Rifling%20%28Civ6%29](Rifling). Building a Mine over (and an [Ironclad%20%28Civ6%29](Ironclad)) triggers the for [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel). Building a Mine over triggers the for [Nanotechnology%20%28Civ6%29](Nanotechnology). Building a Mine over triggers the for [Venture%20Politics%20%28Civ6%29](Venture Politics).