# Mission (Civ6)

+1 {{Science6}} for every adjacent {{Link6|Campus}} or {{Link6|Holy Site}} district
The Mission is a unique {{Link6|tile improvement}} of the {{Link6|Spanish}} [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
The Mission is an underrated piece in the Spanish arsenal, considering its potential {{Science6}} output being the highest in the game while also providing a great mix of {{Faith6}}, {{Food6}}, and {{Production6}}. 
The base yield of a Mission is 2 {{Faith6}}, quite mediocre, but if it is built on a foreign continent, this goes up to 4 {{Faith6}}, 1 {{Food6}} and 1 {{Production6}}, more than twice as much. The extra {{Food6}} and {{Production6}} may sound minor, but they are decent compensations for [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines), This is what makes this improvement superior to a lot of other "spam-able" improvements (like [Kurgan%20%28Civ6%29](Kurgan), or [Sphinx%20%28Civ6%29](Sphinx)), since it doesn't completely stunt the growth and productivity of the city if you want to focus on one type of yield and go completely overboard with it. For this reason, Spain urgently needs to discover another continent before [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) hits, to ensure the maximum potential of this improvement when it is available for use. Also, cities on a foreign continent will receive 2 Loyalty if they have a Mission next to the City Center. The amount of Loyalty provided isn't huge and on its own cannot prevent colonies from revolting, but it is something to prolong the period of peace, giving you more time to act on the matter. 
On top of that, the Mission grants 1 {{Science6}} for each adjacent Campus or Holy Site, regardless of the continent it is on. This is what fuels the Spanish {{Science6}} game, since the sheer amount of {{Science6}} generated by this improvement can tiptoe on the "absurd" territory. 1 {{Science6}} per adjacent {{District6}} may not sound as much, but that doesn't take into account that this improvement virtually has no special placement restriction, beside common restrictions that every improvement has (it cannot be built on [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) or [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil), for example). It can be built on all terrain types, including [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) and [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra), which allows great potential for a Desert [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra) city or a Tundra [St.%20Basil%27s%20Cathedral%20%28Civ6%29](St. Basil's Cathedral) city (incredibly powerful if that city is on a different continent, since in that case each Mission provides 4 {{Faith6}} plus {{Food6}} and {{Production6}} for these barren terrains). Missions can be built next to one another, meaning you can build Holy Site and Campus in every city one tile away from one another, and then completely surround those two {{District6}} with Missions. But the fun doesn't stop there. With [Cultural%20Heritage%20%28Civ6%29](Cultural Heritage), each Mission earns 2 additional {{Science6}}, effectively doubling or tripling the amount of {{Science6}} every Mission has if they are built next to a Holy Site and/or a Campus! The major strength of this improvement lies in its ubiquity, so make sure you put it down everywhere, especially to surround Campuses and Holy Sites or when the city is on a foreign continent. This is also the reason why Choral Music is the number one Follow belief choice for Spain. Spain most likely will lag behind in {{Culture6}} since their focus will be on trade, {{Faith6}} and {{Science6}}, but they do have crucial civic benchmarks they need to hit, such as Mercenaries or Cultural Heritage, and Choral Music grants {{Culture6}} for a {{District6}} Spain would like to build anyway. 
The [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update) made this improvement even more powerful by moving its prerequisites from [Exploration%20%28Civ6%29](Exploration) to Education. Not only that is one whole era earlier, [Education%20%28Civ6%29](Education) is a technology while [Exploration%20%28Civ6%29](Exploration) is a civic, meaning now Spain will have a much easier time unlocking their {{Science6}} prowess.