# Missionary (Civ5)

Game Info.
Religious unit. May only be obtained by purchasing with {{Faith5}} in a [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) with a majority [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](religion).
Strategy.
The Missionary is the basic way to spread your religion beyond the automatic city spread function. Once adjacent to a city, he can spread his religion to it (expending the Missionary after the second use). The effect of the action, or rather, the number of citizens that convert to the Missionary's religion, may vary according to many factors.
If Missionaries enter the territory of another [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) without an [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29%23Open%20Borders](Open Borders treaty), they will lose 25% Religious Strength - usually 250 Religious Strength - per turn to "attrition." The religious pressure added by a Missionary to a city when they spread religion is proportional to the Missionary's Religious Strength. When their Religious Strength reaches zero, they are removed from play.
Note that each Missionary represents the religion of the city where he was purchased. This can be useful in some cases. For example, you might temporarily convert a city to another religion allowing you to build [Monastery%20%28Civ5%29](Monasteries) or other similar [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings). Be careful not to spread the wrong religion inadvertently - you can always check the religion of a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ5%29](Great Prophet) or Missionary simply by hovering over it.
If purchased in a city containing the [Great%20Mosque%20of%20Djenne%20%28Civ5%29](Great Mosque of Djenne), the Missionary will be able to Spread Religion an additional time before expiring. Also, if his religion has the [Religion%20%28Civ5%29%23Founder%20Beliefs](Interfaith Dialogue) Belief, and the target city has a different religion, the action will also yield a number of {{Science5}} points.