# Modern Age (CTP2)

The Modern Age is one of the [Age%20%28CTP2%29](ages) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It is the third age in the base game, coming after the [Renaissance%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Renaissance Age) and before the [Genetic%20Age%20%28CTP2%29](Genetic Age).
Great Library entry.
The Modern Age was marked by an explosion of growth in the areas of human industry and ingenuity. New manufacturing techniques brought on by the Industrial Revolution contributed to an increase in the productive power of cities. Breakthroughs in science, such as electricity, quantum physics and modern medicine led to the development of televisions, airplanes and hospitals. Railroads crisscrossed nearly every continent, expanding the speed and efficacy of transport and travel. The invention of the internal combustion engine led to the rise of the automobile as the dominant form of land transportation in the mid 20th century. By the end of the modern age, computers had pervaded every aspect of human life. They facilitated more rapid scientific research, intercontinental communications, and global commerce. Despite these leaps in human understanding and productivity, the modern age bore witness to a staggering array of new warfare technology. From machine guns and tanks to nuclear missiles and stealth aircraft, battlefields heated up as science begat newer and better ways to destroy life. As technology began to exponentially increase, new questions about the role of technology in society, the responsibility of scientists and even the eventual obsolescence of humanity at the hands of future advances plagued the thinkers of the age.