# Mongolian (Civ5)

The Mongolian people (or Mongols) represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". They are led by . They are available with the , which was released on October 25, 2010.
Strategy.
The Mongolians are the masters of cavalry. Their mounted [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) move faster than any others, and come the [Keshik%20%28Civ5%29](Keshiks), they become one of the most dangerous mobile mounted forces in the game - capable of not only covering great distances very fast, but also delivering serious damage from afar without sustaining any themselves. Coupled with their [Khan%20%28Civ5%29](Khans), they are also able to heal much faster than others, in addition to earning [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions) and [Great%20General%20%28Civ5%29](Great Generals) faster. By mixing Keshiks with a good line of [Longswordsman%20%28Civ5%29](Longswordsmen) or [Musketman%20%28Civ5%29](Musketmen), the Mongolians create an attacking force which can overwhelm almost anything on the field and decimate [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) defenses. This naturally makes them perfect for a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory).
Their other focus is [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-state) combat. The Mongolians receive a general combat bonus against city-state units and the cities themselves, making it really easy to capture city-states throughout the game. Use this advantage to expand your empire without settling new cities, but be careful - if you attack too many city-states, the rest might band together and declare Permanent War on you, depriving you of valuable aid in the game. Try to balance your conquests with [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomacy) and gaining trust.
As with other civilizations with special mounted ranged units, the Mongolian player has to decide which promotions to focus on getting for his or her mounted units. Note that while they are considered ranged they will receive ranged promotions, but these will become useless later when they upgrade to [Cavalry%20%28Civ5%29](Cavalry) and become melee units. You need to decide whether to focus all experience progress towards achieving great ranged strength (which will benefit you until you research [Military%20Science%20%28Civ5%29](Military Science)), or to take some "neutral" promotions such as Cover (which will remain useful later, but generally mean less offensive strength now).