# Mongolian (Civ6)

The Mongolian people (or Mongols) represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in '. They are led by [Genghis%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Genghis Khan), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are dark red and orange; and (with ') by [Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Kublai Khan), under whom their default colors are reversed.
The Mongols' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Örtöö, which causes their s to instantly create s in the destination [City%20%28Civ6%29](city), as well as an extra level of Diplomatic Visibility for having a in another civilization's city and an additional +3 Combat Strength for each level of Diplomatic Visibility they have on an opponent. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Keshig%20%28Civ6%29](Keshig), and their unique [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) is the [Ordu%20%28Civ6%29](Ordu) (which replaces the [Stable%20%28Civ6%29](Stable)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 2 towards "
Mongolia is fairly simple and one-dimensional. Focus completely on domination. There is little need for districts other than an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) early in the game. Focus on building 1-2 Encampments, set up s to your first targets, and start building [Ordu%20%28Civ6%29](Ordu) and [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) as soon as possible. You will get plenty of the other stuff from your conquests later!
Örtöö.
"Extra Combat Strength for every level of Diplomatic Visibility difference".
 Diplomatic Visibility is an obscure mechanic that most players don't care about, since in most situations, it doesn't matter too much, and there are quite a limited number of ways you can interact with it. However, when playing as Mongolia, Diplomatic Visibility should always be at the forefront of your mind, since this bonus is so powerful that it can single-handedly decide the outcome of the war in the right situation.
In short, Diplomatic Visibility is how much information you have on a civilization. There are five levels of Diplomatic Visibility: None (0), Limited (1), Open (2), Secret (3) and Top Secret (4). If there is a difference in Diplomatic Visibility levels between 2 civilizations (A has more intel on B than B has on A), that will result in 3 extra Combat Strength per level of difference when units of these civilizations fight. For example, the maximum Combat Strength can be gained from Diplomatic Visibility of any 2 normal civilizations is 12, when A has Top Secret intel on B but B has nothing on A, resulting in a difference of 4. For Mongolia, any more Diplomatic Visibility they have on their opponent will result in 6 Combat Strength, not 3, meaning in an ideal situation, this bonus can grant 24 Combat Strength to all Mongolian units when fighting a certain civilization, the largest Combat Strength bonus in the game by a long shot.
However, to be able to reach 24 in any given game is extremely rare, if it happens in a game, it must be against civilizations who lost a lot of cities early on and is currently lagged behind in technologies and civics severely (in which case, you don't need 24 extra Combat Strength to put them out of their misery). While there are quite a few ways to improve your Diplomatic Visibility on a civilization, only a selected few can be applied in war:
Other methods of increasing Diplomatic Visibility, such as delegates, embassies, friendship, alliance, s, do not work during a war, so keep that in mind when you check your level of Diplomatic Visibility before declaring war. As you can see, you have 4 ways to increase of your Diplomatic Visibility, but the maximum Diplomatic Visibility will always be capped at 4, any extra level of Diplomatic Visibility will not be taken into account. For example, if you have all 4 methods active in a civilization, and the Spy you are using is a Master Spy, the level of Diplomatic Visibility you have on that civilization is still 4, not 5. That also means that any level of Diplomatic Visibility the opponent has on you will weaken the Combat Strength bonus. The moment your opponent unlocks Printing, the maximum possible Combat Strength now drops to 18. If you play against [Catherine%20de%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29](Catherine de Medici (Black Queen)) and she has unlocked Printing, the maximum Combat Strength is now 12, etc.
Since there are multiple ways your opponent can counteract this ability by increasing their Diplomatic Visibility and there is nothing you can do about it since Diplomatic Visibility doesn't go higher than Top Secret, striking immediately when you have an advantage in Diplomatic Visibility is crucial as Mongolia. At the beginning of the game, right before declaring war, remember to send a to your opponent, as your will be instantly created and give you the first level of Diplomatic Visibility, and this is pretty much everything you can do. If you check the Diplomatic Visibility screen now, it will show that you have a level 2 Diplomatic Visibility over you opponent (Open). Don't be fooled by this, however, since all s between 2 nations will be terminated, meaning the only possible way to raise Diplomatic Visibility during early wars is through your special . For that reason, don't bother sending delegates, as well as don't be afraid to take in delegates, after all, why refuse a free 25 [Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28Civ6%29](Gold), you know delegates, and later, embassies will be ejected after war declaration anyway.
[Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) is likely to be your next civic tree target after researching [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy) (for the [Stirrups%20%28Civ6%29](Stirrups) Eureka), and then [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right). Since Mongolia has no religious tendency and most likely doesn't found a religion, researching [Theology%20%28Civ6%29](Theology) and Divine Right will cost quite a bit of time, but [Chivalry%20%28Civ6%29](Chivalry) is a crucial policy card for Mongolia. It should go without saying that you should get your [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) up as soon as possible and build the [Warlord%27s%20Throne%20%28Civ6%29](Warlord's Throne). For your level 2 Government Plaza building, always go for [Intelligence%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](Intelligence Agency). This building will give you your first Spy, giving you another option to increase Diplomatic Visibility, without having to go all the way to [Diplomatic%20Service%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Service).
On the tech tree, after [Stirrups%20%28Civ6%29](Stirrups), go for Printing. There are no civilizations having uniques unlocked with Printing, and nobody cares about Diplomatic Visibility besides Mongolia, and to a lesser extent, Catherine de Medici, so rarely does anyone want to beeline this tech unless they are shooting for the [Forbidden%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Forbidden City), a really powerful wonder. Try to take advantage of the time gap from when you get Printing and your opponent has not. The good thing about this is Diplomatic Visibility is such an elusive mechanic that no one even thinks about this to counter you; if they are not aiming for Forbidden City, they will neglect this tech for quite a while.
Beyond Encampments, [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) and [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes) are important districts for Mongolia. Commercial Hubs will give you more s, thus making Örtöö easier to activate and will help with paying for your massive horde (though this is unnecessary if you become Suzerain of [Carthage%20%28Civ6%29](Carthage)/[Ngazargamu%20%28Civ6%29](Ngazargamu)). Entertainment Complexes will help provide your sprawling empire with [Amenities%20%28Civ6%29](Amenities) and assist with Loyalty. As far as wonders go, the [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum) is the most important. The rest you can pretty much ignore, although the era score from a wonder can be very helpful in achieving your next Golden Age, and thus, maintaining loyalty throughout your empire.
"Other uses of Trading Posts".
Mongolian s are mostly used for their Diplomatic Visibility, but not always. The fact that Mongolian s instantly establish a at the destination opens up possibilities that are not feasible otherwise. Normally, each grants 1 extra to s that pass through, and refreshes the distance of s, allowing them to reach cities farther away. The fact that Mongolia can have a immediately when the starts without having to wait allows their other s sent in that direction to reach much further and grant even more , and of course, helps you establish a in civilizations across the map. This ability is somewhat reminiscent of the Roman ability, where all cities founded or conquered by Rome will instantly have a to boost s sent through them. 
Mongol Horde (Genghis Khan).
[Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) will be the backbone of your military. The Horseman unit is very powerful on its own, and the bonuses that [Genghis%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Genghis Khan) gets to cavalry units make them nearly unstoppable. Later, once you research Stirrups, you will gain access to your unique unit, the [Keshig%20%28Civ6%29](Keshig). Keshig in "Civilization VI" are not nearly as impressive as [Keshik%20%28Civ5%29](their counterparts in "Civilization V"), but they are still strong and are very helpful for transporting your non-combat units (like [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals) and [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Rams)) across the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). Otherwise it would be difficult for these units to keep up with your horde of Horsemen. 
World domination has become slightly more difficult with the "Rise and Fall" expansion. The further away from your homeland you get, the more you will feel the pressure from the [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) mechanic. Try to achieve a Golden Age during the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), when you will do a large amount of conquering. Getting a Golden Age in the Medieval Era should be relatively easy - remember that completely wiping out a rival civ is worth +5 Era Score. Once you've conquered a city, make sure to start a [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument) for that +1 Loyalty bonus. Finally, remember to use policy cards that provide additional Loyalty to prevent your recent conquests from revolting.
Although generally one of the weaker [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors), [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor) can be particularly helpful for Mongolia in the Loyalty department. Victor provides few relevant bonuses other than Loyalty and he only takes 3 turns (rather than the usual 5) to establish himself in a recently conquered city.
When obtaining other unique [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged%20cavalry](ranged cavalry units) (e.g., [Saka%20Horse%20Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Saka Horse Archers)) either by capturing an opponent's unique unit or purchasing one in the [Barbarian%20Clans%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian Clans) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), they won't be buffed because the ability is coded to apply specifically to light cavalry, heavy cavalry, and Keshig.
Gerege (Kublai Khan).
Kublai Khan's abilities fit in oddly with those of Mongolia as a whole. An extra Economic policy slot is certainly a strong bonus, but synergizes less intuitively with the picture of Mongolia as a pure Domination civilization (as opposed to his alternate civilization, [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](China), whose preferred victory types he supplements very well). Like with his grandfather, you will want to focus on using cavalry if you can (the Ordu makes sure of it). Sweep across the map in early [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), and conquer as much as you can. Later on, it will be time to take stock of your situation. If you feel like Domination is your best option, go for it! An extra Economic slot can support policies like [Liberalism%20%28Civ6%29](Liberalism) that become available around this time to help you keep [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) and productivity high. But if that seems like a lesser option, the way to go is [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Science Victory), since conquering reduces your sources of . The wide Mongolian empire can have impressive output, especially if your extra policy is a card that boosts it such as [Natural%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Philosophy), and the [Boost%20%28Civ6%29](Eurekas) produced from your s will hurry you along.
Ordu.
The Ordu is indispensable for helping Mongolia raise a strong and dominant cavalry force. All cavalry units, including the ranged cavalry [Keshig%20%28Civ6%29](Keshig), trained in a city with an Ordu receive extra XP and , allowing them to reach the front lines of the battlefield quickly and earn s that will make them deadlier with each skirmish.
Keshig.
Although the Keshig is classified as a ranged cavalry unit, it uses the [List%20of%20promotions%20in%20Civ6%23Ranged%20Units](ranged units' promotion table). Depending on which promotions it's given, it can either be used as an anti-infantry weapon or a siege weapon, and its top-tier promotion will allow it to attack twice per turn. It also has [Escort%20Mobility%20%28Civ6%29](Escort Mobility) by default, so it's good at getting [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals), [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Rams), and [Siege%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Towers) to the front lines of the battlefield in a hurry, especially when considering its can be further bolstered by the [Ordu%20%28Civ6%29](Ordu).
Be warned that [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Anti-cavalry](anti-cavalry units) will do extra damage to Keshig, so try to pick them off before they reach melee range or support your Keshig with [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee units).
As the Keshig is a ranged cavalry unit, the -17 Ranged Strength penalty when attacking s and [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval units) still applies. It benefits from [Genghis%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Genghis Khan's) [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](leader ability) (+3 Combat Strength) only on defense, not on offense, and it can still capture enemy cavalry units.
Victory Types.
Mongolia is almost completely focused on a Domination Victory. If, for some reason, a Domination Victory will be difficult to achieve (e.g. when playing on a Continents map), Mongolia can leverage their early conquests into a Cultural or Science Victory, as they should have a massive amount of territory and numerous cities by the end of the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). As detailed above, this is easier with Kublai Khan, whereas Genghis Khan is more focused on pushing for Domination all the way to the end.
However, Mongolia has one very important and unorthodox edge towards a different victory type: [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory), thanks to the Combat Strength bonus from Örtöö. The reason? It is much easier to attain high levels of Diplomatic Visibility in peacetime than in wartime, and the bonus also applies to [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat). This allows Mongolian [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles) to achieve very high power, usually enough of an advantage to instantly defeat enemy Missionaries in home territory, and spread the good word with brute force. And if all else fails, be sure that you have selected the Crusade belief...as a backup, naturally.
Counter Strategy.
Mongolia's entire toolkit, certainly under Genghis Khan, is so tightly focused that it's easy to anticipate what they're going to do - send as many cavalry units at you as possible. They'll even offer a warning of when they'll attack (or sacrifice 6 Combat Strength if they don't) - once they send a your way, that's the sign they're ready to attack. Anti-cavalry units will be your friend; they have the major disadvantage of being unable to keep up with the cavalry they're meant to counter, but that's not a problem if you're simply lining them up to defend your cities. If you can attack them before they send you a , even better - [Greek%20%28Civ6%29](Greece) are particularly good at this, thanks to the [Hoplite%20%28Civ6%29](Hoplite).
Of course, that doesn't account for the extra Combat Strength they get from Diplomatic Visibility. If you see they're in the game but they're not going to hit you immediately, consider beelining [Printing%20%28Civ6%29](Printing) - if you get there before Mongolia attacks you, they lose a chunk of this advantage. Plus, you'll unlock [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani) on the way and [Forbidden%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Forbidden City) at Printing itself, and these are two of the most overpowered wonders in the game, so this is a justifiable beeline anyway.