# Mont St. Michel (Civ6)

2 {{Relic6}} Relic slots 
All {{Link6|Apostle}}s you create gain the {{Link6|Martyr}} ability in addition to a second ability you choose normally. 
Occupying unit receives +6 {{Strength6}} Defense Strength and automatically gains 2 turns of fortification (+6 {{Strength6}} Defense Strength).
Mont St. Michel is a {{Link6|Medieval Era}} {{Link6|Wonder}} in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on {{Link6|Floodplains}} or {{Link6|Marsh}}.
Strategy.
Mont St. Michel is a potentially powerful but niche wonder, and the only method of stable {{Relic6}} Relic generation unless [Yerevan%20%28Civ6%29](Yerevan) is in the game. On paper, Mont St. Michel combined with the Reliquaries belief is a sound strategy, but it has two major problems:
There are two [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) that have extra bonuses for {{Relic6}} Relics: the [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese) and the [Polish%20%28Civ6%29](Polish) (courtesy of [Jadwiga%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga)). Kongo, however, will have an easier time utilizing this wonder under [Nzinga%20Mbande%20%28Civ6%29](Nzinga Mbande), since [Mvemba%20a%20Nzinga%20%28Civ6%29](Mvemba a Nzinga's) [List%20of%20leader%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](leader ability) prevents them from producing Apostles reliably.
If you find yourself in possession of many [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temples) and [St.%20Basil%27s%20Cathedral%20%28Civ6%29](St. Basil's Cathedral) (as can happen when playing [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia), for example), you may want to build Mont St. Michel simply to help fill the overwhelming number of empty {{Relic6}} Relic slots. Even without the Reliquaries belief, gaining a {{Relic6}} Relic for one Apostle's death outweighs the increased cost of purchasing your next Apostle, meaning that losing an Apostle in [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat) can be changed from a {{Faith6}} drain to a {{Faith6}} gain. The loss of Religious Pressure each time an Apostle dies, however, will impede your progress toward a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory), so remember to pick up Monastic Isolation if you're aiming for this kind of victory.
Mont St. Michel can also help a civilization pivot from a heavy investment in a Religious Victory to a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory): if winning a Religious Victory is becoming impractical, building this wonder in the face of a large loss of Apostles can turn a devastating loss of resources into a net gain, while also helping you transition to another victory strategy.
Unlike [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Forts) and similar defensive [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements), Mont St. Michel provides a +6 {{Strength6}} Defense Strength bonus to occupying [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) to offset the -2 {{Strength6}} Defense Strength penalty imposed by Floodplains and Marshes.