# Monument (Civ5)

Game Info.
Basic cultural building of the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Era). Available from the start of the game.
Strategy.
The Monument increases the of a [City%20%28Civ5%29](city), speeding the growth of the city's [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) and the [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization's) acquisition of [Social%20strategy%20%28Civ5%29](social policies). It's the first building available for every city, without having to research any [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology).
Note that under normal circumstances (that is, without any social policies or civilization modifiers) a settled city starts without any , which means its [Borders%20%28Civ5%29](borders) won't grow at all. If border growth is needed for a city, the easiest way to get the required is to build a Monument. [Legalism%20%28Civ5%29](Legalism) also provides one for free, which saves a lot of time and .
There are alternatives to building cultural buildings like the Monument; the opening bonus of the two early social policy trees is similar in effect to that of a Monument. Cities may also gain some from [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders), including the [Palace%20%28Civ5%29](Palace) as a national wonder in the . However, the Monument is vital for continuing the chain of cultural buildings: it is required for the [Amphitheater%20%28Civ5%29](Amphitheater) in the expansions (and the [Temple%20%28Civ5%29](Temple) in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization V").
With the help of alternative sources of and if enough early social policies have been obtained, it may be possible to sell the Monument midway through the game in order to temporarily save . If one chooses to sell one's Monuments, they can be rebuilt later when players have more funds to invest (such as after discovering [Currency%20%28Civ5%29](Currency)) and need access to game-changing social policies (such as those of the [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism) tree).