# Moroccan (Civ5)

The Moroccan people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
Morocco's natural {{Culture5}} production lends itself best to pursuing a [Culture%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory), although other [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) conditions are by no means impossible. Their trade routes directed to foreign [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) will allow one to develop {{Culture5}} easily and boost economy. Use this to your advantage, especially when you are trading with [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states), because you can still get the extra {{Culture5}} and {{Gold5}} while at the same time gaining {{Influence5}} with them. In case you are trading with other nations, you can use your trade routes as an incentive not to declare war on you, as they risk losing the bonus {{Gold5}} benefits associated with your [Caravan%20%28Civ5%29](Caravans).
In the case of war, the Moroccan Empire is exceptionally good at defending [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory). The [Kasbah%20%28Civ5%29](Kasbah) serves as a [Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Fort) to bolster their defensive militia, in addition to increasing the potential of [Desert%20%28Civ5%29](desert) tiles, in which it will provide additional {{Food5}}, {{Gold5}}, and {{Production5}} for Moroccan cities. It's advisable to build [Petra%20%28Civ5%29](Petra) as soon as possible, as the effects of this [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonder) stack with the Kasbah on non-[Flood%20plains%20%28Civ5%29](flood plain) tiles. Furthermore, the Moroccans also have a unique replacement for the [Cavalry%20%28Civ5%29](Cavalry): the [Berber%20Cavalry%20%28Civ5%29](Berber Cavalry), which receives combat bonuses both in desert tiles and tiles in their territory, making engagements on their own soil a costly endeavor for even the most dedicated warmongers.