# Mountie (Civ6)

The Mountie is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Light%20cavalry](light cavalry unit) of the [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canadian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
This unit is not usable in conquest, only to defend. (The real life Mountie is a police unit, after all.) Remember to keep this fact in mind when prioritizing what [List%20of%20promotions%20in%20Civ6%23Light%20Cavalry%20Units](promotions) to give such units. Compared to a standard [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry), it is available later and more expensive; even then, whether or not it will do a good job on defense is not reliable until later, as your enemies can try to avoid attacking cities with [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks). 
However, the Mountie is an incredible unit that allows Canada to establish many National Parks without needing a good {{Faith6}} income. After the huge cost reduction introduced in the April 2021 Update, the Mountie becomes the much more cost efficient version of the Naturalist, even without taking into consideration the fact that it can be built with {{Production6}} instead of only purchasable with {{Faith6}}, and does not go away after using all of its {{BuildCharges6}} build charges. Every National Park established by the Naturalist costs 600 {{Faith6}}, which is equivalent to 300 {{Production6}}. Meanwhile, a Mountie has 2 {{BuildCharges6}} build charges and costs only 290 {{Production6}}, which means every National Park established by a Mountie receives a better than 50% discount in cost compared to the Naturalist's National Parks. It is still a good idea to slot in [Lightning%20Warfare%20%28Civ6%29](Lightning Warfare) (which is unlocked at [Ideology%20%28Civ6%29](Ideology)) to aid with its {{Production6}}, as the Mountie is a standalone unit that cannot be upgraded into. Even if you do have a strong {{Faith6}} economy, you can use the thousands of {{Faith6}} you will save to buy Rock Bands, boosting your late game {{Tourism6}} on top of your National Parks.
Once all the important [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) prerequisites are unlocked, you should go for [Colonialism%20%28Civ6%29](Colonialism) for [Ice%20Hockey%20Rink%20%28Civ6%29](Ice Hockey Rinks), then [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) for Mounties. These Civics are on the same branch of the Civic tree. Once Conservation is unlocked, you should start building Mounties, to establish National Parks, and Builders, to create Woods which increase tile Appeal and allow you to place National Parks in new locations. It is worthwhile to look at [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29%23Mechanics](how Appeal is calculated). It is also useful to consider where you may want parks later when settling and placing districts—regions with lots of Mountains and Woods, for example, will require much less work than thick [Rainforests%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests). Without using Builders to place Woods and Ice Hockey Rinks to increase Appeal, you will not be able to place nearly as many National Parks, and those you do place will be slightly weaker, so be sure to use them so you can take full advantage of this strong boost. For this reason, cards like [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom) and [Public%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Public Works) are must-haves for much of the game. This National Park focus also goes well with the Wish You Were Here Golden Age [Dedication%20%28Civ6%29](Dedication). Placing lots of National Parks, at +3 Era Score each, helps ensure a Golden Age, and this Dedication doubles your main source of {{Tourism6}} for a massive boost.
Consider trying to build the [Eiffel%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Eiffel Tower)—while its technology, [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel), is on the "awkward" side of the tech tree for cultural civilizations, it is extremely powerful for Canada. Not only does it give +8 {{Tourism6}} per National Park, it will enable you to build National Parks in locations you could not before. The Eiffel Tower should be prioritized over Mounties, as Mounties cannot be upgraded into or made obsolete by [Synthetic%20Materials%20%28Civ6%29](Synthetic Materials), which would usually make Cavalry obsolete in favor of [Helicopter%20%28Civ6%29](Helicopters), giving Canada all the time in the world to go after the top half of the tech tree (specifically the 25% empire-wide boost to {{Tourism6}} at [Computers%20%28Civ6%29](Computers)).