# Mount Everest (Civ6)

Mount Everest is a three-tile impassable {{Link6|natural wonder}} in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". Mount Everest appears as a {{Link6|Mountain}}, and may be found on {{Link6|Desert}}, {{Link6|Grassland}}, {{Link6|Plains}}, and {{Link6|Tundra}} {{Link6|tile}}s (often surrounded by regular Mountains). Each wonder tile provides +1 {{Faith6}} and +2 {{Link6|Appeal}} to adjacent tiles.
A [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](religious unit) that moves adjacent to Mount Everest receives the Altitude Training ability, which allows it to traverse [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) without {{Moves6}} penalties.
In "", discovering Mount Everest grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
Strategy.
Each Mount Everest tile provides +1 {{Faith6}} to adjacent non-wonder tiles (see diagram). However, as with all impassable wonders, the individual wonder tiles of Mount Everest offer no benefits, and cannot be developed or improved. Mount Everest is usually most effective when it is near the outskirts of a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) (or even slightly beyond its [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders)), since the wonder tiles themselves are functionally dead space (especially given Mount Everest's tendency to spawn in a cluster of other non-workable Mountains), and their yields aren't that impressive after you found your [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](Pantheon), either. If a city is strategically placed in this fashion, it receives the adjacency benefits of the wonder and you can easily move your religious units to Mount Everest to receive the special {{Promotion6}} without sacrificing valuable space.
Mount Everest's tiles count as Mountains, so [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) next to them receive doubled benefits! A Holy Site next to two Mount Everest tiles receives at least 6 {{Faith6}} starting adjacency (4 {{Faith6}} from 2 tiles of natural wonder, 2 {{Faith6}} from those tiles being Mountains). If you're playing as [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia), that Holy Site will receive an additional 3 {{Faith6}} for being on a tile with high [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal). Considering the formation of Mount Everest, you can settle 3 cities and build 3 Holy Sites this way, and maybe pick the Work Ethic [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29](belief) to get those cities off to a good start! 
Note that the wonder tiles can be incorporated into [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) - if a player wishes to found a Park, then it may be more efficient to place the city closer to the wonder.