# Nano-Assembly (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Breakthroughs in nanotechnology give rise to the advance of Nano-Assembly. The utilizes Nano-Assembly to create . In a , microscopic machines can assemble objects at the molecular level, increasing the productive power of . enable land units to travel across water.
Great Library entry.
Nanotechnology is the vast field of science dedicated to the study and development of objects whose size is measured in nano-meters (1 billionth of a meter and 10,000 times narrower than a human hair). As it evolved, nanotechnology revolutionized and affected almost every field of human interest, from electronics, medicine and energy to construction and manufacturing. The development of nanotechnology began in the late 20th century, with the building of the first nano-machines, tiny gears and motors that signaled a new, sub-microscopic scale world to come. Although these first machines did no useful work, they laid the groundwork for developers to create practical applications of nanotechnology.
Before scientists were able to build functional nano-machines, they discovered a way to assemble simple items at the molecular level. Nanite factories sprang up in cities, enabling manufacturers to construct objects out of minerals such as gold, carbon and titanium, as well as organic materials such as wood. Complex objects, such as electrical appliances, could be constructed as well. Later applications of nano-assembly allowed for the manufacture of objects of unorthodox construction, such as sheets of flawless diamond. Nanite construction and nano-assembly revolutionized the manufacturing industry, rendering robotic plants obsolete.