# Natural wonder (Civ5)

Natural wonders are unique [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) features, masterpieces of Mother Nature, which possess exceptional qualities that make them very different from the average terrain. They inspire awe in any [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) that finds them and provide various benefits to whoever controls them (that is, includes them in his or her empire's [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) and [work](work)s their tiles). These benefits take the form of various yield bonuses, including {{Culture5}}, {{Science5}}, and {{Faith5}}, which aren't normally available on land tiles. Most of their bonuses apply only if they are worked by a [City%20%28Civ5%29](city), and they only apply to that particular city; some bonuses, however, apply empire-wide, or to any [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](unit) that comes close to them (even if it doesn't belong to the civilization that controls the wonder).
Natural wonders provide a permanent boost to your empire-wide {{Happiness5}} when discovered. Some of them also provide an additional boost when inside a territory.
Natural wonders are impassable, and cannot be improved in any way. They are created and placed automatically at the beginning of the game. There are a limited number of natural wonders to discover on each [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map), determined by the map's size.
Whilst playing on a huge [Earth%20%28map%29%20%28Civ5%29](Earth map), natural wonders are placed approximately in their real-world locations, making them much easier to find. (For example, [The%20Great%20Barrier%20Reef%20%28Civ5%29](The Great Barrier Reef) is always off the northeast coast of [Australian](Australia) if it spawns.)
The [Spanish%20%28Civ5%29](Spanish) civilization has a [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) that greatly increases the benefits of discovering and working natural wonders.