# Natural Philosophy (Civ6)

Natural Philosophy is an Economic [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
Natural Philosophy is the first Economic Policy which boosts something other than {{Gold6}} or {{Production6}}. It is naturally more efficient the more [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) you have, but it also becomes progressively more efficient the larger their [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) are. For example, a Campus with a bonus of +1 will gain another +1 from this policy (for a total of +2), while a Campus with a +3 bonus will reach a total of +6. Since every single point of a yield type counts in "Civilization VI", and most of the time the gain is absolute rather than proportionate, Natural Philosophy will only be worth it if you have more than one Campus and/or your Campuses have good adjacency bonuses - otherwise, it won't be worth it to spend an {{EconomicPolicy6}} Economic slot just to gain a modest 1 or 2 {{Science6}}.
Of course, you will also have to take into consideration whether or not you really need the {{Science6}} boost. If you are already managing a fast technical progress, then it will probably be more worthwhile to go with other Economic Policies. On the other hand, if you are playing as the [Greek%20%28Civ6%29](Greeks) with their [List%20of%20civilization%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](civilization ability) Plato's Republic (additional Wildcard Policy Card slot in any [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government)), then this card is all but a default peacetime pick. This holds particularly true with [Classical%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Republic) or [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic) as your government.
This policy is a must when playing as [Korean%20%28Civ6%29](Korea), as their [Seowon%20%28Civ6%29](Seowon) has a base adjacency of 4 {{Science6}}. Since this policy doubles Campus adjacency bonuses, this gives Korea a huge boost in {{Science6}}. This policy will also impact [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia's) [Madrasa%20%28Civ6%29](Madrasa), boosting the amount of {{Faith6}} depending on the adjacency bonus of the Campus it is in.
Natural Philosophy can impact {{Production6}} if you have chosen the {{GoldenAge6}} [Dedication%20%28Civ6%29](Dedication) Heartbeat of Steam, which gives a {{Production6}} bonus equal to the Campus adjacency. A Campus surrounded by [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) under this condition would generate +12 {{Science6}} and {{Production6}}.