# Nau (Civ6)

The Nau is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20melee](naval melee unit) of the [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portuguese) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Caravel%20%28Civ6%29](Caravel).
Strategy.
The Nau is a decent upgrade to the Caravel, since it adds extra flavors to a unit that is otherwise utterly underwhelming and underused (read more [Caravel%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here)). 
The Nau has no stronger combat statistics when compared to the standard Caravel, which is a step in the right direction, since extra Combat Strength will easily go to waste on a unit that is not meant for fighting. Instead, each Nau has 2 build charges to construct Feitorias in foreign cities, special shipping ports that boost and for every Portuguese that ends in those cities. Since the main strength of this unit is the Feitoria, your main goal as Portugal is to crank out as many Naus as possible to scout out potential positions for Feitorias. The Nau's low maintenance cost and the [Navigation%20School%20%28Civ6%29](Navigation School) make the goal a lot easier to achieve. The [Venetian%20Arsenal%20%28Civ6%29](Venetian Arsenal) can be thrown into the mix to amplify this power spike even more, although it is not always compulsory, since the Feitoria has a restrictive placement rule, so having a lot of Naus without suitable places for Feitorias is useless. 
The Nau, just like the unit it replaces, has a very short period of relevance, since its upgrade, the [Ironclad%20%28Civ6%29](Ironclad), is unlocked with [Steam%20Power%20%28Civ6%29](Steam Power), only one era later. You can make it last a little bit longer by 2 methods, each has its own downside:
After expending both build charges, the Nau basically reverts back to being a Caravel, which is not very useful and will drain your treasury away. Even when Portugal is guaranteed a generous income, there is just not much reason to keep these units around when they have clearly outlived their usefulness. You can delete them, and maybe keep some [Helmsman%20%28Civ6%29](Helmsman)- Promoted Naus around for exploration.
Similar to other unique units with build charges, Naus can clear and repair improvements for free (as long as they have at least 1 remaining build charge), and they can also clear nuclear fallout (which costs 1 build charge).