# Naval Yard (SMAC)

 is a [base%20facility%20%28SMAC%29](base facility) in "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)". This facility provides +2 Morale to naval units produced. Naval units that end their turn here are automatically restored to full strength the next turn. Increases naval defense at this base by 100%.
Strategy.
Some players are not convinced of the economics of Command Centers, unless you can get them free with the Command Nexus, and Naval Yards not only have a more limited application (Everyone except the Pirates will build many less naval units than land and air units) but they also require twice the upkeep costs. Unless you get The Maritime Control Center and get them for free, or you feel you really must take on the Pirates before Doctrine: Air Power, you are simply foolish to build these. Actually, if you want to make a big enough navy to take on the Pirates at surface level, you're pretty foolish too. They get these Naval Yards for free, and can capture the ships you so expensively trained up. If the Pirates are not in the game, then who exactly did you want to use all these +2 Morale foils and cruisers against anyway? By the time there's enough sea bases in the game that its worth training your navy to attack them, its also late enough that you have Needlejets and 'Copters, which do a much better job (barring AAA capabilities on the part of the enemy garrison).
Use those 8 rows to build a couple of Foil Probes if you really have to muck about in the water, and then spend the cash you saved on causing a few problems for some other fool.