# Naval unit (Civ6)

Naval units are [Military%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](military units), with the exception of [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals), which have water as their native element: they can never move onto a land [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) unless that tile is a [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center), a [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canal), or submerged due to [Climate%20%28Civ6%29%23Phases%20of%20Climate%20Change](rising sea levels). Unlike in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", no naval units (including [Submarine%20%28Civ6%29](Submarines)) can move through [Ice%20%28Civ6%29](Ice) tiles. Here can be found a list of naval units in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Mechanics.
Movement.
Moving at sea is significantly easier than moving on land - all tiles here take only 1 {{Moves6}} to pass through, except when the tile is improved by a [Polder%20%28Civ6%29](Polder) or contains the [H%E1%BA%A1%20Long%20Bay%20%28Civ6%29](Hạ Long Bay). However, as usual, certain [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) are generally required to be able to move at sea at all. (Notably, the [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori) have those techs by default.) Furthermore, the seas are divided into two types of tiles: [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) tiles, where the waters are close to land and more calm; and [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Ocean) tiles, which cover most of the map. The [Sailing%20%28Civ6%29](Sailing) tech allows you to build the first ship in the game, the [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galley), but this ship may only move on Coast tiles. The same is valid for the more advanced [Quadrireme%20%28Civ6%29](Quadrireme).
At the same time, most land units may not move on sea at all until the [Shipbuilding%20%28Civ6%29](Shipbuilding) tech is developed. Before that, only [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) may Embark with Sailing, and [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Traders) may embark with [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation).
No units may enter Ocean tiles until the development of [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography) in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era). At this point even Galleys and Quadriremes are able to enter Ocean tiles. This represents a stark difference with "Civilization V", where early game units could never enter Ocean tiles, even when your civilization had progressed enough.
Finally, all units moving at sea (including Embarked land units) receive +1 {{Movement6}} after researching [Mathematics%20%28Civ6%29](Mathematics).
Fleets/Armadas.
Military naval units, like their land-based counterparts, can be formed into powerful permanent unit combinations (not to be confused with creating [Movement%20%28Civ6%29%23Escort%20formations](escort formations)). There are two such types of combinations available in the game:
Maintenance for the combined units is less than the combined value of the two or three units. The exact values involved seem to depend on the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) of the combined units. Also, it appears that units trained as Fleets or Armadas in a city with a [Seaport%20%28Civ6%29](Seaport) will have their maintenance reduced even more.
Another advantage to Fleets and Armadas is that their maintenance cost is not much higher than for normal units of the same type. This makes it worthwhile forming these advanced combinations from a purely economical standpoint: you spend less {{Gold6}} for maintaining a combination which consists of fewer units of greater individual strength.
You have two main ways of forming these combinations. The first one is to combine existing units: whenever you have two or more identical units in adjacent tiles, a special action will appear in their Action tab, after which you will be prompted to choose which units you want to combine with. The new combined unit inherits the promotions of its most experienced unit (i.e., the one with the highest promotion level at the time you create or expand the combination), and its [XP](XP) earning rate and unique name (if it has one). Any other promotions which lower-ranking units had before being added to the combination are lost. That means it is a good strategy to combine new, inexperienced units with your veteran ones. If the two units you're combining are the same level but have different promotions, the resultant Fleet or Armada inherits all promotions from both units.
The second way is to train a new unit directly into the higher combination from the start, in a city with a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) and a Seaport. This will take more {{Production6}}, proportional to the increase in {{Strength6}} Combat Strength a combination provides over a single unit of this kind. However, it is still faster than creating two or three separate units, then combining them (unless of course you create them in two or three different cities).
Please note that certain [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29%23Great%20Admirals](Great Admirals) can create Fleets or Armadas using their retirement ability.
In "Gathering Storm" most late-game units also "consume" strategic resources each turn ({{Coal6}}, {{Oil6}}, {{Aluminum6}}, or {{Uranium6}}), which amounts to a specific type of maintenance. Fleets and Armadas, however, still consume the same amount of resources as an individual unit of the type, which makes it even more advantageous to maintain a lesser number of combined units instead of a greater number of single units of the same type.