# Navigation School (Civ6)

+1 {{Science6}} for every two coast or lake tiles in this city. 
+1 {{Admiral6}} point per turn. 
+4 {{Science6}} 
+1 {{Housing6}} 
+1 {{Citizen6}} Citizen slot 
+1 {{Scientist6}} point per turn
The Navigation School is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portuguese) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and replaces the [University%20%28Civ6%29](University).
Strategy.
Simply put, the Navigation School is a great replacement for the University. It offers all the same bonuses that the University does in addition to +1 {{Admiral6}} point, +25% {{Production6}} to naval units and +1 {{Science6}} from every two Coast or Lake tiles in the Navigation School's city, all without being more expensive to build or maintain. Naturally, as Portugal, you will want all of your cities to be coastal, and this building puts another layer of emphasis on that, since none of its bonuses can be used consistently by an inland city.
The extra amount of {{Science6}} can be really game changing if some of your cities are built on tiny landmasses surrounded by water. The total amount of {{Science6}} can triple, or even quadruple the base {{Science6}} granted by a University. Of course, not every city can generate a meaningful amount of bonus {{Science6}} with this building, since it is perfectly normal to have coastal cities with very few coast tiles (especially ones on the coast of a large continent or landmass), but on average, it should have the same effects as having [Isaac%20Newton%20%28Civ6%29](Isaac Newton), which is one of the most powerful and contested {{Scientist6}}s.
The Navigation School is also part of the Portuguese strategy to establish [Feitoria%20%28Civ6%29](Feitorias) across the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). The +25% {{Production6}} towards naval units allows Portugal to build large numbers of [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galleys) when combined with the [Press%20Gangs%20%28Civ6%29](Press Gangs) military policy card, which can then be upgraded with the {{Gold6}} Portugal will be dripping in from their international {{TradeRoute6}}s (and which they can spend less of by slotting [Professional%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Professional Army) right before upgrading) into [Nau%20%28Civ6%29](Naus). This gives Portugal a spectacular mid-game push around the late [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) to early [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance), when their {{TradeRoute6}}s become much stronger with policy cards such as [Trade%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Trade Confederation) (unlocking at [Mercenaries%20%28Civ6%29](Mercenaries)) and [Wisselbanken%20%28Civ6%29](Wisselbanken) (unlocking at [Diplomatic%20Service%20%28Civ6%29](Diplomatic Service)). Having 2 Naus triggers the {{Inspiration6}} for [Exploration%20%28Civ6%29](Exploration), which unlocks [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic), and allows for proactive construction of Feitorias in cities you're trading with. If you want to create a naval empire, this is the time to build the [Venetian%20Arsenal%20%28Civ6%29](Venetian Arsenal) as well, although between Press Gangs, the Navigation School, and any inherently productive tiles in a powerful coastal city, the Arsenal might be overkill and your time may be better spent just pumping out ships.