# Nazca Line (Civ6)

The Nazca Line is a special [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in "". It can be built by a player that is the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of the [Nazca%20%28Civ6%29](Nazca) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state). It must be built on a flat [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile).
Strategy.
Using this improvement effectively is hard, but possible with good planning. The improvement acts as an [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) to nearby tiles; however, the tile itself cannot be worked by a Citizen! This means that rarely should you build two Nazca Lines next to each other. The only exception to this is when you have a large desert city which has expanded to the fourth tile ring and beyond, you can put Nazca Lines on the tiles belonging to the fourth ring and farther, since they improve the yields of other workable tiles and do not cost you anything. Also, look for those great expanses of flat Desert (the Nazca Line can only be built on a flat tile) which have resources on them, then build a couple of Nazca Lines around the resources. This will enhance the resource tiles' yields at the cost of the other tiles being unworkable; however, most Desert tiles have no yields anyway so you won't lose anything. 
Nazca Lines are even better in mixed terrain, where flat Desert tiles are mixed with other terrains ([Plains%20%28Civ6%29](Plains), [Grassland%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland)), or with [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers) with [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains). Even [Water%20%28Civ6%29](water) tiles benefit from Nazca Lines, so you could get generation from the sea!
If you have a desert [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) with a lot of [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) and you plan to build [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra) in it, you should not use this improvement in combination, as the yields from Petra are so much more substantial than yields from the Nazca Line. This improvement should only be used when you have a city settled in sub-optimal desert areas with low yield and you tried to rush for Petra but failed, as this improvement can work as a backup plan to keep that city going. Don't go and settle new desert cities just because you are the Suzerain of Nazca when Petra is already built elsewhere, as Nazca Lines are not strong or impactful enough to create a bustling desert city for you.
With favorable terrain and some planning, the [Mapuche%20%28Civ6%29](Mapuche) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) can use Nazca Lines to boost the Appeal of their [Chemamull%20%28Civ6%29](Chemamull) improvements, in turn providing higher . [District%20%28Civ6%29](Districts) for [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia) can also get a yield boost for each adjacent Nazca Line, and [Alc%C3%A1zar%20%28Civ6%29](Alcázars) and [Seaside%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Seaside Resorts) will enjoy a boost in and yields respectively.
[Vampire%20Castle%20%28Civ6%29](Vampire Castles) are able to copy the yields of Nazca Lines even though the tiles are unworkable.