# Network Node (SMAC)

Network Nodes are a base facility made available by the [Information%20Networks%20%28SMAC%29](Information Networks) technology. The [University%20of%20Planet%20%28SMAC%29](University) starts off with a free Network Node in each base.
A Network Node increases LABS output by 50% at its base. Possession of the [The%20Virtual%20World%20%28SMAC%29](Virtual World) causes each Network Node in each of the faction's base to double as a [Hologram%20Theatre%20%28SMAC%29](Hologram Theatre) with no maintenance cost.
Strategy.
They're not cheap, and despite what the Datalinks say, they cost 1 energy/turn, not zero, which is a shame. If you play as the University, you get one in every base for free. They are also the prerequisite for some of the later and greater tech boosting facilities, and they link up with two different Secret Projects (The Virtual World and The Network Backbone) to become even more useful.
If you're playing as the University you by default will skip this (barring sabotage from a hostile Probe Team), but the other factions are almost forced to build them in order to try and match the Uni's tech speed. They get a basic +2 Research on the Social Engineering table and the free Nodes make them reach that lower target 50% quicker. They get you coming and going, so the other factions are obliged to try to do something about it.
Like their sister facility, the Energy Bank, they need to be built at the right moment. They'll cost you 1 energy/turn so unless they'll give you at least 2 extra labs/turn you're not making a profit. That means bases that are producing a basic 4 labs/turn or more will start to feel the benefit, or even at 2 labs/turn its worth considering for factions with low Efficiency ratings if they have lots of cash, but slow tech. Build your Nodes too early, and you are throwing away expansion for little or no return. Build them too late, and someone else will out-tech you. Either build them in core bases just after getting Industrial Automation and getting the basic Crawler infrastructure out and building whatever early game Secret Projects you might want, or to try and get them built quickly before Industrial Automation so they don't stop you from filling your build queues with crawlers.
Network Nodes have some other nice effects. They prevent the bad random event from happening when you lose all accumulated labs, and instead give you a chance of getting the random event where "A Network Node reports a technological breakthrough" and you get the tech currently being researched.
They also allow you to 'cash in' alien artifacts for an extra tech.