# Next War (Civ4)

Next War is one of the [Scenario%20%28Civ4%29](scenarios)/[Mods%20%28Civ4%29](mods) bundled with the "" expansion pack. It can be played in two ways. You may play the preset scenario, or you may play the mod. The mod essentially allows you to play a standard "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" game where you can advance to Next War technology levels. It was designed by [Paul%20Murphy](Paul Murphy).
Lore.
Next War: The Story Thus Far...
Following the collapse of the much hated One World Government in the late 2030's and the ensuing political, military and economic chaos, four new power blocs have come to dominate the globe. America, Inc. controls all of the traditionally English-speaking areas of the world, as well as a large chunk of Old Mexico. Europa dominates the northern portion of the Eurasian continent, while the Pan-Asiatic People's Cooperative has gobbled up Asia, Indo-China, and Indonesia and what was the Philippines. The southern hemisphere (except old Australia and New Zealand) is controlled by the Southern Empire.
Population growth and rapidly-diminishing resources increasingly spark border tension between the Powers, and many feel that worldwide conflict is inevitable. And while during its brief existence the One World Government did manage to destroy much of the world's nuclear stockpiles, there's rumor that some of the Powers are rapidly rebuilding their arsenals while researching technologies that may allow the creation of even more deadly weaponry. When the conflict comes, it's likely to be terrible indeed.
Technologies.
Next War adds on a slew of techs to the end of the game. These include:
Units.
New Units in the "Next War" mod are all futuristic units, including [Clones%20%28Civ4%29](Clone workers), and vast clone armies composed of [Automaton%20%28Civ4%29](Automatons) and [Cyborg%20%28Civ4%29](Cyborgs). However, it also presents units even more powerful than the Modern Armor (a.k.a. most powerful unit in the base game, with a strength of 40). One of them is the [Assault%20Mech%20%28Civ4%29](Assault Mech), with a strength of 60, and the ability to attack units from range and starts with the Blitz and Morale promotions. The second unit is the [Dreadnought%20tank%20%28Civ4%29](Dreadnought tank), a massive, multi-turreted tank, built to destroy. It comes with a whopping strength of 70, can bombard city defenses and starts with the Blitz promotion.
Wonders.
There are two new Wonders: the New League of Nations (a [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ4%23Great%20Wonders](World Wonder) that functions exactly the same as the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ4%29](United Nations) in the base game) and the Centres of Disease Control (a [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ4%23National%20Wonders](National Wonder) that increases [Health%20%28Civ4%29](health) in all cities and the healing rate of units within the city).
Scenario-Next War.
Official Description.
Engage in a near-future battle for world dominance. Massive war machines, clone armies, domed cities and a vast nuclear arsenal are your tools of negotiation. Battle on land, sea and air, and should the world crumble in the resulting chaos, make sure you own the largest crumb!
"UN"official Description.
In this scenario, you choose one of four superpower blocs as follows:
The [Victory%20%28Civ4%29%23Cultural](Cultural) and [Spaceship%20%28Civ4%29](Space Race) victories are not available. This leaves the [Victory%20%28Civ4%29%23Conquest](Conquest), [Victory%20%28Civ4%29%23Domination](Domination), [Victory%20%28Civ4%29%23Diplomatic](Diplomatic), and if all else failed, the Time victories to win.
Also in Next War, there is a unique way to lose. By launching 20 [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ4%29](nukes) and detonating them (Excluding the ones shot down by [SDI%20%28Civ4%29](SDI)) a dialogue pops up saying that the prolonged nuclear activity has caused extreme strain on the Earth's core, and the planet has cracked like an egg. Everybody loses! You will also get a warning about it after about 7 nukes have been launched. There are two strange things about this:
Beware! This loss doesn't just include your nukes. Everyone's nukes count. So say you were playing Europa and you only launched 7 nukes before stopping at the warning, then The Great Southern Empire launched 6, America Inc. launched 3 and Asia launched 4, then you would still lose! For this reason, it's best if you build the New League of Nations as soon as humanly possible and ban nukes the first chance you got.