# Nihang (Civ6)

The Nihang is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) of the [Lahore%20%28Civ6%29](Lahore) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state). It can be purchased with {{Faith6}} by a player that is the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of Lahore.
Strategy.
The Nihang, like the [Warrior%20Monk%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior Monk), is a military unit with its own special set of promotions - [Jangi%20Kara%20%28Civ6%29](Jangi Kara), [Jangi%20Mojeh%20%28Civ6%29](Jangi Mojeh), [Sanjo%20%28Civ6%29](Sanjo), [Tegh%20%28Civ6%29](Tegh), and [Trehsool%20Mukh%20%28Civ6%29](Trehsool Mukh) - which must be purchased with {{Faith6}} and is available only to the Suzerain of Lahore. A Nihang with all five promotions will have 3 {{Moves6}}, suffer no combat penalties when damaged, receive +7 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength when flanked and +10 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength while its owner is Lahore's Suzerain, and award its owner with {{Faith6}} equal to 50% of the base {{Strength6}} Combat Strength of each enemy unit it defeats. This means that a Nihang will have 87 {{StrengthIcon6}} Combat Strength in ideal conditions, before any additional modifiers such as terrain, government, flanking bonuses, or other civilization or city-state-specific abilities or bonuses.
The Nihang's abilities make it most valuable to [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) of [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) that have both religious and military bonuses, such as [Chandragupta%20%28Civ6%29](Chandragupta), [Philip%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Philip II), and [Tamar%20%28Civ6%29](Tamar). [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander), [Shaka%20%28Civ6%29](Shaka), and [Sim%C3%B3n%20Bol%C3%ADvar%20%28Civ6%29](Simón Bolívar) also benefit from purchasing Nihang when possible: since these leaders have incentives to build and develop [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) quickly, their Nihang will reach their full potential sooner than those owned by their opponents.
The greatest strength of the Nihang, however, is its unbelievable scaling into the mid- and late game while keeping its low cost and {{Gold6}} maintenance. It gains {{Strength6}} Combat Strength for each new type of Encampment [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) its owner constructs, allowing it to remain useful until the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Information Era) rolls around and it gets outclassed by [Mechanized%20Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Mechanized Infantry) and [Modern%20Armor%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Armor). The Nihang has two major power peaks: once when the Armory is unlocked ([Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era)) and once when the Military Academy is unlocked ([Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era)), at which points you have a unit as strong as but available one [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) earlier than the standard [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketman) and almost two eras earlier than the [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry) that doesn't require any [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resources). Moreover, Nihang are quite cheap: their cost starts at a base price of 200 {{Faith6}} and scales according to the [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) and [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) progression, but can be reduced by adopting [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy). For the sake of comparison, a Musketman costs 240 {{Production6}} and an Infantry costs 430 {{Production6}}, and the maintenance cost of a Nihang is half as much as a Musketman and a third as much as an Infantry. If you are ahead in {{Science6}} and can unlock the Military Academy quickly, your opponents won't be able to stop an army of Nihang with strength as high as a unit that comes two eras later, and they barely require any effort to churn out quickly and aggressively.
Lahore should be a priority city-state, as it is dangerous to let it fall into the hands of an aggressive civilization. Try to become its Suzerain, build 1-2 [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) for a bit of {{Faith6}} generation, build at least one Encampment, beeline techs that unlock Encampment buildings and you can roll over absolutely anyone. The [AI](AI) leaders love building Holy Sites, so by conquering you will generate even more {{Faith6}} to build up your Nihang army. Remember that Nihang purchased early on will receive their {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonuses at the same time as those purchased later, so the sooner you can become the Suzerain of Lahore, the sooner you'll be able to maximize the return on your {{Faith6}} investment.
Despite being classified as melee units, Nihang don't benefit from [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Rams), [Siege%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Towers), or [Akkad%20%28Civ6%29](Akkad's) Suzerain bonus. They do, however, receive {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonuses from [Oligarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Oligarchy), [Fascism%20%28Civ6%29](Fascism), and [Ambiorix%20%28Civ6%29](Ambiorix's) [List%20of%20leader%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](leader ability) and [XP](XP) bonuses from Encampment buildings, and are boosted by [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great Generals) of any era.
Besides, Nihang keep their unique basic {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonuses from Encampment buildings even when embarked, which makes them tougher than the other embarked units.
Bugs.
For some unknown reason, units that belong to CLASS_ALL_ERAS (i.e., Nihang and [Vampire%20%28Civ6%29](Vampires)) may sometimes not receive a Great General's combat boost although they should be affected by all Generals regardless of era, or the General may boost one unit but not another. This can be circumvented by bringing multiple Great Generals into battle.