# Nubian Pyramid (Civ6)

The Nubian Pyramid is a unique {{Link6|tile improvement}} of the {{Link6|Nubian}} [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert), [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert (Hills)) or [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) (in "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)", [Desert%20Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Floodplains) only) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles).
Strategy.
The Nubian Pyramid can be extremely useful when used correctly. Because of Kandake of Meroë, Nubia already gets 20% extra {{Production6}} towards {{District6}}s, and that rises to 40% {{Production6}} when a Nubian Pyramid is adjacent to the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center).
Nubian Pyramids provide +2 {{Faith6}} and +2 {{Food6}} (+3 {{Food6}} if built adjacent to a City Center), allowing these tiles to actually contribute to Nubian {{CitizenIcon6}} Population growth. As +2 {{Food6}} on each tile is still not amazing, Nubia should still look to settle on the edge of deserts and not deep within them, unless the city has many [Desert%20Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Floodplains) which can be improved with [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms).
Nubian Pyramids can be placed only on [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert), [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Hills), and Desert Floodplains tiles. As already mentioned, Desert Floodplains should be improved with Farms instead; this will protect any Nubian Pyramids from [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](flooding) damage and simply provide more {{Food6}}. The price of settling near these unfavorable tiles is slightly offset by both the extra {{Production6}} and {{Gold6}} from [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) provided by Nubia's civilization ability.
It would be remiss to not mention the other part of the Nubian Pyramids' ability, which is gaining +1 yield from all adjacent districts (based on their respective yields). Think of this as a [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) in reverse: instead of granting a +1 bonus to all the {{District6}}s around it, it gets bonuses based on the {{District6}}s around it. However, due to the general lack of [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) opportunities in deserts, Nubian Pyramids should be used as a fallback plan. Nubia's {{District6}}s should still aim for their individual highest possible adjacency rather than creating huge clusters of {{District6}}s like [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan).
Desert tiles without any adjacent {{District6}}s are probably better left unimproved; the {{BuildChargesIcon6}} build charges spent on improving tiles with Nubian Pyramids are better spent elsewhere. Furthermore, any invaders who pillage Nubian Pyramids will gain much more {{Faith6}} in one turn than Nubia will probably gain from an individual Nubian Pyramid over the course of an entire [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era).