# Nubian (Civ6)

The Nubian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Amanitore%20%28Civ6%29](Amanitore), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are light yellow and brown. They are available with the [Nubia%20Civilization%20%26amp%3B%20Scenario%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Nubia Civilization &amp; Scenario Pack), which was released on July 27, 2017.
The Nubians' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Ta-Seti, which provides them with +30% {{Production6}} toward and extra combat experience for [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged units), +1 {{Production6}} from [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) over [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resources), and +2 {{Gold6}} from Mines over [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Bonus](bonus) and [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](luxury resources). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [P%C3%ADtati%20Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Pítati Archer) (which replaces the [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archer)), and their unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) is the [Nubian%20Pyramid%20%28Civ6%29](Nubian Pyramid).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "Tier 2 towards [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) and [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert (Hills)); tier 5 towards {{Aluminum6}}, {{Coal6}}, {{Copper6}}, {{Diamonds6}}, {{Iron6}}, {{Jade6}}, {{Mercury6}}, {{Niter6}}, {{Salt6}}, {{Silver6}} and {{Uranium6}}"
Nubia is one of the most powerful and newbie-friendly civilizations in the game, as their abilities allow flexible yet easily executed strategies. In war, their army of fast-moving, hard-hitting Pítati Archers will quickly take care of the enemies. In peace, their expertise at city planning allows efficient {{District6}} construction.
Ta-Seti.
Nubia's civilization ability lends itself toward a focus on {{Production6}} and military (and especially ranged units).
"Extra {{Production6}}" and "{{Gold6}} from Mines over resources".
To take full advantage of their unique improvement and this aspect of their unique ability, Nubia should found [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) near [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Deserts), [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains), and [List%20of%20resources%20in%20Civ6](resources) that can be improved with Mines: {{Copper6}}, {{Diamonds6}}, {{Jade6}}, {{Mercury6}}, {{Salt6}}, {{Silver6}}, and land-based sources of {{Amber6}} (and, as they research the [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) needed to reveal them, {{Iron6}}, {{Niter6}}, {{Coal6}}, {{Aluminum6}}, and {{Uranium6}}). 
As their empire grows, the Nubians should build [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) adjacent to their Mines and [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) in the cities they plan to use as unit training centers. This will allow them to keep their army large and strong as they push forth to conquer new lands, and the XP bonuses from Encampment [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) and their civilization ability will allow their ranged units to catch up to their veteran units in short order.
"Boosts to ranged units".
By discovering [Craftsmanship%20%28Civ6%29](Craftsmanship) and getting the [Agoge%20%28Civ6%29](Agoge) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) early on, they can rapidly raise an army of Pítati Archers that can be used to stage lightning raids on their neighbors' cities. They should try to keep their Pítati Archers alive for as long as possible - if they do, the quick {{Promotion6}}s that they earn will allow them to form the core of an extremely deadly assault force as they upgrade to [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen) and beyond. In all but the final [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) of the game, three or four ranged units with [Incendiaries%20%28Civ6%29](Incendiaries), [Expert%20Marksman%20%28Civ6%29](Expert Marksman), and melee or cavalry support mitigate the need for [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Siege](siege units).
Nubia should have little trouble founding a [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) thanks to the Nubian Pyramid's {{Faith6}} bonus, but may have difficulty founding a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) without cutting back on its military. [Desert%20Folklore%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Folklore), [Religious%20Idols%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Idols), and [God%20of%20Craftsmen%20%28Civ6%29](God of Craftsmen) are all good choices for pantheons, and beliefs that strengthen military units or boost {{Production6}} or {{Gold6}} all play to the Nubians' strengths.
In the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), Nubia can benefit from the [Sanguine%20Pact%20%28Civ6%29](Sanguine Pact), which gives them strong immortal melee units to help take cities, something ranged units can't do alone; the [Vampire%20Castle%20%28Civ6%29](Vampire Castle) also synergizes well with Nubia's bonuses towards Mines. The Heroes in the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) game mode can also help take cities.
Kandake of Meroë.
Under Amanitore, the Nubians have an increased incentive to build multiple {{District6}}s in each city. Industrial Zones and Encampments, as mentioned above, should be high priorities when pursuing the fast, aggressive playstyle that their civilization ability supports; other cities should have [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), and either [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) or [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbors) to increase their {{TradeRoute6}} limit and pay the maintenance cost of their growing army.
If the Nubians have empty [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) around one of their cities, they can benefit from building the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids), [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra), and [Ruhr%20Valley%20%28Civ6%29](Ruhr Valley).
Nubian Pyramid.
The Nubian Pyramid can be extremely useful when used correctly. Because of Kandake of Meroë, Nubia already gets 20% extra {{Production6}} towards {{District6}}s, and that rises to 40% {{Production6}} when a Nubian Pyramid is adjacent to the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center).
Nubian Pyramids provide +2 {{Faith6}} and +2 {{Food6}} (+3 {{Food6}} if built adjacent to a City Center), allowing these tiles to actually contribute to Nubian {{CitizenIcon6}} Population growth. As +2 {{Food6}} on each tile is still not amazing, Nubia should still look to settle on the edge of deserts and not deep within them, unless the city has many [Desert%20Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Floodplains) which can be improved with [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms).
Nubian Pyramids can be placed only on Desert, [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Hills), and Desert Floodplains tiles. As already mentioned, Desert Floodplains should be improved with Farms instead; this will protect any Nubian Pyramids from [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](flooding) damage and simply provide more {{Food6}}. The price of settling near these unfavorable tiles is slightly offset by both the extra {{Production6}} and {{Gold6}} from [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) provided by Nubia's civilization ability.
It would be remiss to not mention the other part of the Nubian Pyramids' ability, which is gaining +1 yield from all adjacent districts (based on their respective yields). Think of this as a [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) in reverse: instead of granting a +1 bonus to all the {{District6}}s around it, it gets bonuses based on the {{District6}}s around it. However, due to the general lack of [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) opportunities in deserts, Nubian Pyramids should be used as a fallback plan. Nubia's {{District6}}s should still aim for their individual highest possible adjacency rather than creating huge clusters of {{District6}}s like [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan).
Nubian Pyramids can be placed next to one another, and there's no limit on the number a city can have. Quantity is more important than quality for Nubian Pyramids, so instead of trying to place every unique {{District6}} around a single Nubian Pyramid, place several of them around each {{District6}} to get the specific yield you care about (e.g., surround a Campus with Nubian Pyramids for extra {{Science6}}). In fact, in a situation where you're in need of {{Science6}} but have no [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) or [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs), it's better to build a Campus with no adjacency bonus and build Nubian Pyramids on the 6 tiles adjacent to it, which translates to a +6 {{Science6}} bonus. The same goes for Theater Squares and [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites).
Desert tiles without any adjacent {{District6}}s are probably better left unimproved; the {{BuildChargesIcon6}} build charges spent on improving tiles with Nubian Pyramids are better spent elsewhere. Furthermore, any invaders who pillage Nubian Pyramids will gain much more {{Faith6}} in one turn than Nubia will probably gain from an individual Nubian Pyramid over the course of an entire era.
Pítati Archer.
The Pítati Archer is a superb replacement for the Archer: it's stronger, quicker, and earns {{Promotion6}}s 50% faster thanks to the Nubians' civilization ability. Its one drawback is its higher {{Production6}} cost, though the Nubians' bonuses toward training ranged units help offset this.
All things considered, the Pítati Archer is hands down the best ranged unit until the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era):
The Nubians can gain a military advantage early on by training several Pítati Archers, which they can use to launch lightning raids on [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](barbarian) outposts and unsuspecting neighbors.
Pítati Archers become [obsolete](obsolete) with [Ballistics%20%28Civ6%29](Ballistics), though they'll be replaced by Crossbowmen long before this technology is discovered.
Victory Types.
Thanks to the Nubian Pyramid's flexible bonuses and the {{Production6}} bonus towards {{District6}}s, Nubia can pursue any victory type by focusing on Campuses (and [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceports)), Theater Squares, or Holy Sites. However, a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) is the most logical choice for them: their Pítati Archer is extremely strong in the early eras, and their ranged unit {{Production6}} and XP bonuses aren't restricted by available terrain and apply throughout the game.
Counter Strategy.
Being anywhere near Nubia is very dangerous in the early game. Pítati Archers can handily defeat pretty much any other unit that becomes available before the Medieval Era, and Nubia's various {{Production6}} bonuses let them get infrastructure up quickly. Try to satisfy Amanitore's [Agenda%20%28Civ6%29](agenda) and stay in her good graces, but if it comes to war, the best strategy is to build [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls) in all your cities and keep normal Archers garrisoned in them. Pítati Archers can shred units, but they're a lot worse at directly assaulting cities, and enough bombardment will eat through their modest HP.
Even once Pítati Archers are irrelevant, Nubia can still be a threat, since they keep their bonuses to ranged units. Always watch out for them.