# Nuclear Missile (Civ5)

Game Info.
Advanced [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ5%29](nuclear weapon) of the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Information Era). Delivered via guided missile. Requires [Manhattan%20Project%20%28Civ5%29](Manhattan Project) and 2 .
Strategy.
The Nuclear Missile is an upgraded version of the [Atomic%20Bomb%20%28Civ5%29](Atomic Bomb), and the ultimate weapon of the warmonger. It must be stored in one of your [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) or carried by one of your [Nuclear%20Submarine%20%28Civ5%29](Nuclear Submarines) or [Missile%20Cruiser%20%28Civ5%29](Missile Cruisers) prior to being launched. The nuclear warhead is delivered by a guided missile rather than a bomber plane, which makes it almost impossible to stop (short of destroying the [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](unit) that carries it or capturing the city in which it is stored). With a range of 12, a Nuclear Missile possesses significant reach, and will heavily damage cities while destroying all units within its blast radius of 2 tiles; the missile, too, is consumed in the attack.
The nuclear attack, as usual, produces a deadly [Fallout%20%28Civ5%29](fallout) in its blast radius, which makes the land unusable until it can be scrubbed clean by a [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Worker).
Unlike Atomic Bombs, Nuclear Missiles will utterly destroy cities with a of 6 or less (5 if the city has a [Bomb%20Shelter%20%28Civ5%29](Bomb Shelter), 4 in ""), removing them from the [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) and leaving [City%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](City Ruins) in their place. However, they are unable to destroy cities that cannot be razed, so original [Capital%20%28Civ5%29](capitals) and [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states) will be safe from complete destruction.
Bear in mind that the Nuclear Missile affects everything in its blast radius regardless of allegiance. Hence, it can end up hitting [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) or units owned by a nonhostile [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) or city-state, which is considered a declaration of war against the owner. When the risk of collateral damage is high, it's better to use Nuclear Missiles as a last resort. They also require , so players who rely heavily on Nuclear Missiles should keep production of [Nuclear%20Plant%20%28Civ5%29](Nuclear Plants) and [Giant%20Death%20Robot%20%28Civ5%29](Giant Death Robots) to a minimum.