# Nuclear Submarine (Civ6)

The Nuclear Submarine is an [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20raider](naval raider unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It upgrades from the (or its replacements) and requires .
In the "" expansion, the Nuclear Submarine does not require [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resources) to train.
Strategy.
A much better version of its predecessor, the Nuclear Submarine is truly the most terrifying [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval unit) if the player has access to . Although it fixes none of the problems the Submarine has (detailed [Submarine%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here)), it compensates for these shortcomings with the capability to deploy nukes across the sea. With their ability to deal vast damage to targets 12 or 15 tiles away (depending on whether they're launching s or s), Nuclear Submarines are not susceptible to Destroyers like other naval raider units. Moreover, this can catch enemies by surprise because nukes do not need vision to detonate, so there is no need for "spotting units" close to enemy borders like when you attack with regular ranged units. Since the Nuclear Submarine is essentially a mobile [Missile%20Silo%20%28Civ6%29](Missile Silo) with invisibility, it is incredibly hard for Destroyers to pinpoint its location and reveal it.
In "Gathering Storm", the Nuclear Submarine does not require to build, but since almost 100% of its strength lies in its nuclear armaments, having is necessary to realize its potential. Without it, there's little need to bother with this unit unless you're strapped for and - a fleet of Destroyers and [Battleship%20%28Civ6%29](Battleships) or [Missile%20Cruiser%20%28Civ6%29](Missile Cruisers) will serve you better in large-scale naval warfare, provided that you have the resources to build them.