# Nuclear Msl. (Civ2)

The Nuclear Msl. is one of two {{Link|2|pre=cat|Missile units|missile}} {{Link|2|unit}}s in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)", available with the {{Link|2|Rocketry}} {{Link|2|advance}}. It is the strongest offensive unit in the game, using [%23Strategy](unique combat rules) that grant it unparalleled destructive power. A {{Link|2|city}} containing the {{Link|2|SDI Defense}} {{Link|2|City improvement|improvement}} is the only means of thwarting a nuclear attack.
Nuclear missiles can only be built once the {{Link2|Manhattan Project}} {{Link|2|Wonder}} has been completed. {{Link|2|Civilizations}} also require knowledge of {{Link|2|Nuclear Fission}} in addition to Rocketry. A civ in possession of nuclear weapons prompts unique commentary during {{Link|2|Diplomacy|sec=Interactions|diplomatic meetings}}.
Nuclear Msl.s can be carried by {{Link|2|Submarine}}s as well as {{Link|2|Carrier}}s.
Strategy.
Civilizations whose units and/or cities are caught in the blast radius do not recognize these casualties as direct aggression. This means attacking an enemy adjacent to neutral/allied forces can be exploited to weaken a rival without provoking war.
As a missile unit, Nuclear Msl.s can be carried by {{Link|2|submarine}}s, allowing them to be smuggled past the enemy perimeter to launch strikes deep within the heartland. Submarine-based nukes allow a player to conceal a retaliatory stockpile from a rival's against their known arsenal.
Fallout.
A nuclear strike is a considerable source of on-map pollution, with a worst-case scenario producing 9 polluted tiles, enough to provoke {{Link|2|global warming}} if not cleaned up. Thus, large-scale and/or sustained nuclear warfare is a significant detraction to all players' {{Link|2|Victory|sec=Scoring|game score}}, and endangers habitability of the entire {{Link|2|Map|planet}}.
Countermeasures.
The {{Link|2|SDI Defense}} protects all tiles within a three-space radius of its host city from "foreign" nuclear strikes, immediately destroying the missile; it will not intercept the player's own missiles. SDI does not prevent blast damage from attacks against the fourth tile outside this perimeter.
Strategic warfare.
The advent of nuclear weapons drastically raises the dangers of [war](war). Even a limited exchange can devastate well-developed cities, while multiple strikes can be made on the same city to destroy its population outright. Keeping track of which rivals are capable of building nukes during and after construction of the Manhattan Project, and which are maintaining a standing arsenal,{{refn|group=note|Note that the nuclear boast in rivals' {{Link|2|Diplomacy|sec=Interactions|diplomatic preamble}} only refers to active missiles, and does not forewarn about nukes in production.}} is important to planning for imminent threats and future sneak attacks.
Sustained nuclear warfare risks effectively destroying the planet through cascading global warming. {{Link|2|Computer opponents}} tend toward liberal use of nukes, regardless of the player's own arsenal, meaning it may be necessary to intervene in a third-party war to save the belligerents from themselves.
A civilization with no or limited SDI coverage must instead rely on destroying enemy missiles before they can deploy. Using {{Link|2|pre=cat|espionage units}} to {{Link|2|Espionage|sec=Investigate City|scout city garrisons}} and {{Link|2|City|sec=Production|production}}, and locating active {{Link|2|airbase}}s, can help identify priority targets in a before committing to war.
Civilopedia entry.
The deployment of atomic bombs at Nagasaki and Hiroshima at the end of World War II changed the world's standards for measuring military power. Nuclear weapons can eradicate ground forces and armored divisions, and flatten cities with their awesome explosive power. In the years following World War II, arsenals of nuclear weapons were built up rapidly by opposing nations, each fearing the capabilities of the other. This massive arms build up has acted as a deterrent to full-scale war, since all the governments involved are aware of the consequences should such a war take place. The threat imposed by the huge nuclear arsenals of the world powers may one day be eradicated by the development of the Strategic Defense Initiative, or SDI, a system designed to destroy enemy missiles in flight before they can reach their targets.
Modding.
Owning at least one instance of the unit in the 46th slot affects {{Link|2|Diplomacy|sec=Interactions|diplomatic messages}} from {{Link|2|AI|computer opponents}}:
These messages are defined in {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Popups|Game.txt}} in sections {{mono|@NUCLEARWEAPONS}}, {{mono|@YOURNUKES1}}, and {{mono|@YOURNUKES2}}, respectively.