# Nuclear Power Plant (Civ6)

The Nuclear Power Plant is an advanced [Production%20%28Civ6%29](production) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) in "". It is the third and final power-producing building in the game; it is built in the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and requires a [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory) (or one of its replacements).
Strategy.
The Nuclear Power Plant, more so than any other energy source in "Gathering Storm", has benefits and drawbacks that the player needs to balance for their specific situations. Note that Nuclear Power Plants "are" vulnerable to enemy [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies), for example via the [Espionage%20%28Civ6%29%23Espionage%20Missions](Sabotage Production) espionage mission.
Drawbacks.
Nuclear accidents.
There are three kinds of nuclear accidents that can occur: Radioactive Steam Venting, Major Radiation Leaks, and Nuclear Meltdowns. As a Nuclear Power Plant's Reactor Age increases, so does the likelihood and potential severity of an accident.
Production upkeep.
To avoid the most severe accidents described above, it may be necessary for a city to perform Recommission Nuclear Reactor - a project with a base cost of 400 {{Production6}}. The true impact of this production cost depends on the frequency the player deems necessary for recommissioning. On paper, it would seem that the risk-free use of Nuclear Power Plants requires recommissioning every 10 to 20 turns.
Benefits.
Slow global warming progress.
While Nuclear Power Plants suffer from drawbacks - the effective loss of the city's {{Production6}} and a potentially significant draw on {{Uranium6}} - they also enjoy interesting benefits. For one, {{Uranium6}} consumption creates the least amount of CO2. Depending on the stage of global warming, widespread adoption of Nuclear Power Plants may allow the player to construct [Flood%20Barrier%20%28Civ6%29](Flood Barriers) in time to protect their [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) lowlands before such [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) are permanently lost, whereas without Nuclear Power Plants they otherwise cannot. Similarly, slowing global warming may also permit the completion of Dams along all [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers) in the empire as global warming makes [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](floods) more frequent. However, once these preparations are made, the benefits related to global warming become less significant. Floods confer only fertility but do no damage. That is another layer of complexity the game offers.
Regional Science bonus.
Another benefit lies in its regional {{Production6}} and {{Science6}} bonuses. While a city can receive only the highest {{Production6}} bonus from either its own Power Plant or one nearby, and the {{Production6}} bonus of the Nuclear Power Plant is easily eclipsed by [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plants) in conjunction with strategically placed Industrial Zones, the {{Science6}} bonus always applies to all cities within range.
The player needs to balance between this benefit of extra {{Science6}} output and the drawbacks of {{Uranium6}} cost and productivity loss due to recommissioning.