# Oasis (Civ6)

Oases are a [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29%23Features](terrain feature) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". Oases are found on flat inland {{Link6|Desert}} [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles).
Strategy.
Oases are a handy terrain feature in the desert, ensuring both {{Food6}} and [Housing%20%28Civ6%29](fresh water) even in the absence of [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains). (Oases are usually found far from [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers).) Founding a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) near one presents a good alternative to founding it near a River. Note, however, that the Oasis is in fact a type of a mini-lake, so you cannot place anything - {{District6}}s, [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders), or [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements) - on it. On the other hand, its shallow waters don't even hinder normal movement (unlike most other terrain features).
Since an Oasis is quite literally in the middle of the desert, you will have to think carefully about whether or not it's worth it to found a city near one. Unless there are [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills), [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources), rivers, or other types of terrain nearby, a city there will have no way to sustain itself or produce anything! However, if you manage to construct [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra), all of the city's Desert tiles will turn into fertile and productive land. The Oasis tile itself will also benefit from the effects of Petra, making it extremely productive.
Even though Oases are a source of fresh water, [City%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](City Parks) built adjacent to them don't give +1 {{Amenity6}} like those built adjacent to Rivers, [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lakes), and [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coasts).