# Oedo year

Oedo years are most commonly associated with [Glossary%20of%20Civilization%20terms%23Meta](meta) strategies to minimize [anarchy](anarchy). They also provide forecasts for [barbarian](barbarian) piracy. Oedo years may link to other mechanics, but these have not been documented.
## Overview

An oedo year occurs every fourth game turn. On this date, [anarchy](anarchy) ends and [civilizations](civilizations) can adopt a new [government](government).{{refn|name=oedo}}{{refn|name=civ1|{{cite web|url=https://forums.civfanatics.com/threads/what-wonders-do-you-hate-be-inflammatory.279424/post-6974812 |title=RE: What Wonders do you Hate? (Be Inflammatory!) |author=Valen |date={{date|28 June 2008}} |website=[Civilization%20Fanatics%27%20Center](Civilization Fanatics' Center) |access-date={{date|9 September 2023}}}} }} A common player strategy in "Civilization II" is to time {{Link|2|Science|research}} to acquire a government {{Link|2|advance}} on the oedo year, as the prompt to change government occurs before anarchy is resolved in the {{Link|2|Turn|sec=Order of operations|update process}}; thus, anarchy's disruptive effects can be partially or fully bypassed.{{refn|name=oedo}}{{rp|at=[https%3A//forums.civfanatics.com/threads/oedo-years-i-think-this-should-be-common-knowledge.649/post-8954](post 5)}} Otherwise, instigating a revolution the turn before the oedo year minimizes anarchy's duration;{{refn|group=note|A {{Link|1|Bugs|bug in Civ1}} allows anarchy to be reliably avoided: when [Saving%20and%20loading](loading a game) on an oedo year, any ongoing anarchy is immediately resolved. Thus, instigating a revolution, saving, then loading the game results in a "zero-turn" revolution.{{refn|name=civ1}}{{rp|at=[https%3A//forums.civfanatics.com/threads/what-wonders-do-you-hate-be-inflammatory.279424/post-6987271](post 28)}} }} the [Pyramids%20%28Civ1%29](Pyramids (Civ1)) and [Statue%20of%20Liberty%20%28Civ2%29](Statue of Liberty (Civ2)) [Wonder](Wonder)s provide the same effect.
Reference charts.
Tracking oedo years is complicated by the lack of an in-game turn counter.{{refn|group=note|The [Civilization%20II%20MGE%20User%20Interface%20Additions](Civilization II MGE User Interface Additions) {{Link|2|Mods|mod}} adds turn count to the Status window in the "".}} As a standard game progresses, the interval between calendar dates narrows. The following tables provide easy reference for oedo turns and their corresponding calendar year.