# Oil (Civ5)

Game Info.
Late-game strategic resource. Used by most of the powerful late industrial-early modern era [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units).
Strategy.
 Oil is the first late-game strategic resource (revealed by the [Biology%20%28Civ5%29](Biology) [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology)), and is quite unique for a number of reasons. First, it is the only strategic resource found on both land and sea. Second, it is the only resource which requires two unique new improvements to access: the [Oil%20Well%20%28Civ5%29](Oil Well) for land-based sources, and the [Offshore%20Platform%20%28Civ5%29](Offshore Platform) for sea-based ones. Finally, its sources are in weird locations: [Desert%20%28Civ5%29](Deserts), [Snow%20%28Civ5%29](Snow), and [Tundra%20%28Civ5%29](Tundra) [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) or anywhere on [Coast%20%28Civ5%29](Coast) tiles. Of these, Oil is most often found in Deserts, which gives desert-based [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations) a unique advantage: they can be all but sure that they will reveal multiple sources already within their [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory). Otherwise, be ready to expand immediately after you reveal the Oil sources.
Unimproved, the Oil resource itself doesn't provide a big bonus (only +1), but both of the improvements add a whopping +3 . This is a total of +4 over the base tile yield, which makes the tile really productive. Sea-based sources of Oil are even more useful because of the additional bonuses the [Lighthouse%20%28Civ5%29](Lighthouse) and the [Seaport%20%28Civ5%29](Seaport) provide (+2 and +1 , apart from the Offshore Platform's own bonus).
 Oil is used for most early late-game machines on land, sea, and air, such as armored units and airplanes, so militaristic civilizations should make sure they have plenty of Oil to continue their wars.