# Oil (Civ2)

Oil is a {{Link2|commodity}} and {{Link2|resource}} type in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)".
Stats.
Increases the amount of Shields produced in {{Link2|Desert}} and {{Link2|Glacier}} Terrain to 4
Civilopedia entry.
Oil has been known to humans since ancient times. Oil deposits found on the surface were used for centuries for waterproofing and fuel purposes. But it was not until the coming of the Industrial Revolution that civilization began to form a dependence on petroleum products. The widespread use of oil for fuel, lubrication, and other purposes led to a search for larger supplies. In the mid 1800's, the first oil wells were drilled, marking the beginning of a tremendously important and profitable industry. Today, with the world's oil supplies dwindling and the demand for oil constantly rising, oil is a more valuable resource than ever.
Commodity.
As a commodity, oil is available to cities near {{Link2|desert}}s, {{Link2|tundra}}, {{Link2|glacier}}s, or {{link2|swamp}}s and is especially abundant on {{Link2|continent number}} 9. The supply of oil is greatly increased by the discovery of [Combustion%20%28Civ2%29](combustion). The likelihood of exporting oil also doubles above {{Link2|city size}} 37.
The value of an oil {{Link2|caravan}} or {{Link2|freight}} is multiplied by 3½ times if it is in demand. Oil demand is enabled by the discovery of industrialization and tripled by the discovery of the [Automobile%20%28Civ2%29](automobile). (Gifting these advances to other {{Link2|civilizations}} can thus boost their oil demand if you are looking for a market.) Demand also increases with the number of known technologies and with city size. Demand is increased by [Factory%20%28Civ2%29](factories) and [Superhighways%20%28Civ2%29](superhighways) and reduced by [Mass%20Transit%20%28Civ2%29](mass transit) and [Recycling%20Center%20%28Civ2%29](recycling centers).
After a civilization has 32 [List%20of%20advances%20in%20Civ2](technologies) including [Industrialization%20%28Civ2%29](industrialization), oil can appear as a secondary {{link2|wildcard}}, supplied or demanded if other potential wildcards cannot be expressed.
The high value and late appearance of oil means its caravan bonus is often maxed out and limited by the [%E2%85%94%20science%20cap](⅔ science cap).
Resource.
Oil is a {{Link2|whale-class resource}} that appears in {{Link2|desert}}s and amid {{link2|glacier}}s. These are handled differently by codice_1 ("Desert Oil" and "Glacier Oil") but in both cases the resource changes the tile's production value to 4 {{Production2}}[Production%20%28Civ2%29](shield)s. The oil resource does "not" make the oil commodity more likely to appear in a nearby city, except insofar as it counts as four of its underlying tile instead of only one.