# Okihtcitaw (Civ6)

The Okihtcitaw is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Recon](recon unit) of the [Cree%20%28Civ6%29](Cree) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scout).
In the "" expansion, the Okihtcitaw can upgrade to a [Skirmisher%20%28Civ6%29](Skirmisher).
Strategy.
The Okihtcitaw has the same {{Strength6}} Combat Strength as a [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior) and greater maneuverability, making it ideal for both defense and scouting. What is even more important is that it starts with a free {{Promotion6}}, which will enable it to move freely over one difficult type of [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) from the moment it's trained! When chosen wisely, this {{Promotion6}} alone will grant it a massive speed boost; explore the prevailing terrain with other units before you churn out your first Okihtcitaw and choose whether to have it move freely over [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) or in [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) and [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests). Then the Cree will be able to explore their surroundings much faster than other civilizations, and reap the benefits of early discoveries. There is also a chance to receive free Okihtcitaws from [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Villages).
Don't rely too much on this unit, however - being a recon-class unit, the Okihtcitaw does not possess the Warrior's Bonus versus anti-cavalry and combat-oriented {{Promotion6}}. Therefore, in the grand scheme of things, the Okihtcitaw is more resilient against damage in the early game but in no way exceptional as a military unit, even when dealing with [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians). Furthermore, a huge downside of this unit is that it is 33% more expensive than the standard Scout. On Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed), this will translate to at least 2 more turns of production. However, since Okihtcitaws earn a free Promotion from the get go, they can scout better than regular Scouts since they can move unhindered by their first promotion's terrain feature while unexperienced Scouts are saddled by rough terrain. Considering the chief purpose of a Scout is to explore the surroundings and its role will quickly become less of a priority, and the fact that the Okihtcitaw can never fully replace [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee units) in your army, it is not recommended you invest too much into this unit. All in all, a unique Scout that is more expensive than the standard one is not all that impressive, and hardly any other bonuses can justify building an army of Okihtcitaws. One is the standard number, two if you are being very generous.