# Open-Air Museum (Civ6)

The Open-Air Museum is a unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) of the [Swedish%20%28Civ6%29](Swedish) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". 
Strategy.
The +2 and +2 bonus per terrain type is substantial, making it worthwhile to spread out a bit to found cities on the various terrain types. This improvement does not count terrains and their [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) separately, so settling, for example, on both Snow and [Snow%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Snow Hills) does not give you more . In other words, the maximum yield you can get is 10 per Open-Air Museum.
This improvement urges Sweden to explore for city spots in all biomes. While it is easy to have a good city spot on [Plains%20%28Civ6%29](Plains) and [Grassland%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland), it is a lot harder to find one on [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) and [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow). For Desert, you can try to settle on the edge of a vast desert where you can still have access to fertile land, or on a [Desert%20Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Floodplains) tile, or in a vast open desert with a lot of [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Hills) tiles and then try to build [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra). It is substantially more difficult with [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow). Your best bet is either on a Snow tile adjacent to [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) regions, or on a coastal Snow tile next to a river with a lot of sea resources. You can try to build the Amundsen-Scott Research Station later in this city. As for the Tundra city, it is not as easy as Grassland or Plains, but not as hard as Snow or Desert, since Tundra can still host a lot of resources, and also [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), which can be made productive with [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mills). As for the [St.%20Basil%27s%20Cathedral%20%28Civ6%29](St. Basil's Cathedral), you have to choose if you want to maximize the yields by putting it in a Tundra city, or maximize the output in your Relic game by putting it in your Holy City with the [Mont%20St.%20Michel%20%28Civ6%29](Mont St. Michel).
The good thing is since Tundra, Snow and Desert spots are most likely subprime, they are almost always available. If there is a spot you want to settle, but is subject to strong foreign [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty), although the innate Loyalty bonus of this improvement does help a bit, you can try to form a [Alliance%20%28Civ6%29](Cultural Alliance) with the nearby empire to negate their pressure. 
Note that you do not need to unlock [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight) for the bonus to kick in, unlike every other -generating improvement, further amplifying the early potential over every other cultural empires. Also, despite the tooltips saying that this improvement only takes into account cities "founded" by Sweden, it actually counts captured cities as well. Therefore, if you've managed to conquer some cities that were founded on certain types of terrain, you won't need to settle new cities there to get the maximum yield out of your Open-Air Museums.