# Oppidum (Civ6)

+2 {{Production6}} bonus if adjacent to a Quarry improvement or strategic resource.
The Oppidum is a unique {{District6}} of the [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gallic) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) and is unlocked with [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in an Oppidum:
Strategy.
The Oppidum is one of the most interesting unique {{District6}}s in the game. Arguably its most powerful attribute is that it is unlocked at [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working) instead of [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship). [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working) only requires Mining and Bronze Working in order to research, making it very easy to rush. Contrast this to [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship) which needs 6 other technologies to research. This lets the Gauls get a massive {{Production6}} advantage in the early game, perfect for conquest, expansion, or competing for any Wonders you may desire.
Another powerful bonus is that building your first Oppidum immediately unlocks [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship). While this technology is no longer necessary for building your [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone), it does give +1 {{Production6}} to all of your Mines and unlocks the [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop). This synergizes extremely well with the Gauls' incentives to build a lot of Mines and piles on to their already very strong early game {{Production6}}.
A more niche attribute of the Oppidum is that it gains Outer Defenses and a Ranged Strike like the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment). This is by no means weak, but considering you will want to prioritize spots that give the Oppidum a good adjacency bonus, you may not get as much use out of this as you would from a strategically placed [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment). Ideally, in core cities where you produce military units, you would like both of these districts, and you would like them to be placed in opposite sides of the City Center to shield it from invasion. However, since your Encampment placement is not dependent on adjacency bonuses, strategize where you would place the Oppidum first and then place the Encampment on the other side of the city. Giving [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor) the [Embrasure%20%28Civ6%29](Embrasure) title and assigning him to a city would allow it to perform up to 6 {{RangedStrength6}} Ranged Strikes per turn: twice from the City Center, Encampment and Oppidum.
Despite all of these bonuses, the Oppidum has a large disadvantage in its [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency) rules. The standard [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone)'s adjacency rules allow for very consistent high adjacency with use of well placed [Dam%20%28Civ6%29](Dams) and [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts). The Oppidum on the other hand, relies much more on luck, requiring either Strategic Resources or {{Stone6}}, {{Marble6}} and {{Gypsum6}}. This may work out in your favor, but considering you will only be able to see 2 Strategic Resources at the point you start making your Oppida, it may be difficult to find any locations that will give a higher adjacency than 4, while a standard Industrial Zone can easily reach this number by being flanked by well-placed engineering districts.
Overall, beside its defensive capability and the {{Production6}} cost discount every unique district has, the Oppidum and its {{Production6}} boosting ability does not scale too well into the late game compared to the standard version (and especially not compared to the almighty [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29](Hansa)), as it is totally dependent on favorable map generation. Take advantage of your {{Production6}} spike quickly (when you build the first Oppidum and unlock Apprenticeship), as other civilizations can quickly catch up with you in {{Production6}} when they themselves research Apprenticeship.
However, after the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update), the major focus of this {{District6}} gets shifted slightly away from being the {{Production6}} hub to being the fuse of the Gallic war cannon. With the introduction of the Man-At-Arms at Apprenticeship, the more important responsibility of the Oppidum is now to be the vessel that unlocks this [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) unit when the game is still in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era). You only need three [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ6](technologies) to unlock the Oppidum, [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining), [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working) and [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working), and that will be the exact first three technologies you research every game. Thanks to the Gallic [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias), triggering the {{Eureka6}}s for Bronze Working and Iron Working is almost guaranteed every game. For the build order, after the first [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scout) like normal, get a [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builder), then a [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settler), and start building military units like Gaesatae or [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29](Slingers). After unlocking Bronze Working, put down an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment), and after Iron Working, start building your first Oppidum and then go back for [Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ6%29](Animal Husbandry) (to reveal {{Horses6}}) and [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery) (for [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers)). Upgrading Gaesatae to Men-At-Arms in the Ancient Era is costly, especially for a civilization with no extra {{Gold6}} like the Gauls, so use that {{Gold6}} to upgrade Slingers into Archers instead. With the generous early {{Production6}} from Mines, Apprenticeship and the Oppidum, hard-building Men-At-Arms is not too onerous. With this strategy successfully pulled off, the fact that the {{Production6}} bonus of the Oppidum scales poorly as the game progresses hardly matters anymore. Its job is to unlock an incredibly advanced military unit for its time and supply enough of a {{Production6}} spike to train some of that unit in a reasonable amount of time, and it exceeds any expectation in fulfilling that role.
Alternatively, a Gaul player can go for a slightly less risky but also less powerful build by waiting on the Oppidum. By detouring for [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery) (and perhaps [Writing%20%28Civ6%29](Writing)) before [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working) and doing an early Gaesatae and Archer rush, Gaul can gain some cities and establish dominance in the surrounding area before upgrading to [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Men-At-Arms). This allows for the Gallic economy to be better prepared for the high {{Production6}} and {{Gold6}} cost of Men-At-Arms while also revealing {{Horses6}} to allow for better adjacency bonuses on your Oppida. However, holding Men-At-Arms off for too long will have the opposite effect, making the infamous Gallic power spike less effective as other civilizations may unlock other medieval units such as [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen) in the meantime. The best strategy is probably a compromise, researching Archery before Iron Working and taking a few cities from a weaker neighbor before gaining Men-At-Arms, though this will depend heavily on your game.