# Oromo Cavalry (Civ6)

The Oromo Cavalry is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Light%20cavalry](light cavalry unit) of the [Ethiopian%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". 
In the "" expansion, the Oromo Cavalry replaces the [Courser%20%28Civ6%29](Courser) and requires 10 to train.
Strategy.
Not exactly the most memorable or flashy unique unit, the Oromo Cavalry is the most "quiet" piece in the Ethiopian arsenal. It is only slightly stronger than the standard Courser, with a conditional Combat Strength bonus from [Menelik%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Menelik II's) ability. However, it does have better maneuverability in hilly terrain and higher than a regular Courser. Coupled with the fact that this is a light cavalry unit, it shines brighter working as a scout for imminent threats approaching your border, or as a "spotter" (i.e., a unit that works solely to provide vision and intel on the enemy's army). In aggressive conquest, rather than functioning as a true militaristic unit, its outstanding mobility in hilly areas, when combined with [Depredation%20%28Civ6%29](Depredation), can make this unit a huge annoyance to deal with. Though it can easily escape from perilous situations through tactical pillaging and retreat, it, similarly to other light cavalry units, poses little threat to walled cities, because it is not supported by [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Rams) and [Siege%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Towers), and its tree is not geared towards conquest. For that reason, don't go overboard with this unit, mix it with melee combined with siege support, and throw in some heavy calvary units for brute force. 
Overall, even when Ethiopia can compete well on the domination path thanks to their outstandingly high generation and [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) or the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel), it is definitely not because of this unit. The Oromo Cavalry is not crucial in any Ethiopian strategy; you can rely exclusively on [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights) to defend or conquer if you have more abundant than and there are not any major consequences for that.