# Ottoman (Civ5)

The Ottoman people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
The Ottomans are a seafaring nation designed for a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory). Their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) is a bit similar to that of the [German%20%28Civ5%29](Germans), but oriented towards naval [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) - they pay less for their maintenance, and they have the ability to convert defeated enemy ships to their side, which allows them to expand their naval power very quickly. If you start building up your fleet early (by fighting [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians), for example), you will have an impressive number of ships come the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance Era), which you can use to start conquering other coastal nations. Look for every opportunity to enter naval combat, both to gain [XP](XP) and new units. And of course, develop the [Exploration%20%28Civ5%29](Exploration) tree to maximize your maritime infrastructure.
In the Renaissance Era the Ottomans' [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) become available, allowing them to make a powerful push towards [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory). Use the [Sipahi%20%28Civ5%29](Sipahi) cavalry to recon enemy lands and devastate their [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements), then the [Janissary%20%28Civ5%29](Janissary) corps to decimate their armies. Then move in for the kill with siege equipment, rest to recover your forces and continue the push! Your fleet will be invaluable as support...and later, in the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Modern Era), an unstoppable engine of destruction!