# Palgum (Civ6)

The Palgum is the [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique building) of the [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylonian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center), replaces the [Water%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Water Mill) and is unlocked with [Irrigation%20%28Civ6%29](Irrigation).
Strategy.
The Palgum is a very nice upgrade to the rather underwhelming and underused Water Mill. Beside the 1 extra and compared to the Water Mill, the Palgum provides 1 to all tiles next to a source of Fresh Water, including [River%20%28Civ6%29](rivers), [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](lakes) and [Oasis%20%28Civ6%29](oases). The efficacy of this building is no longer heavily tied to random map generation like the Water Mill, since now you can seek out locations on a river where there are many Fresh Water sources, and grow your cities incredibly quickly. And don't underestimate the bonus, either. Extra 2 is huge in the Ancient Era, especially for a building that does not require another slot. For comparison, the [Workshop%20%28Civ6%29](Workshop), a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) building, also provides 2 in Vanilla and "", while being almost 2.5 times as expensive as the Palgum and requiring the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone). 
Also, the Palgum is only one of the two [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) unique buildings, meaning it is not dependent on a specific type of and can be built everywhere, as long as the city satisfies one very simple placement requirement. The [Valletta%20%28Civ6%29](Valletta) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state), therefore, has a powerful synergy with Babylon, since it allows them to instantly purchase the Palgum with , making it easier for new cities to grow immediately after settling. 
It is worth noting that the Palgum is unlocked with [Irrigation%20%28Civ6%29](Irrigation) rather than [Wheel%20%28Civ6%29](Wheel) like normal. For most civilizations, this is barely a distinction, but because of the way Babylon's ability interacts with technology it ends up being unlocked much sooner, since you will nearly always spawn next to and prioritize improving , , and , thanks to your [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29](starting bias). Considering Babylon's outstandingly low per turn and the fact that they can easily catch up with their civilization ability, they are not under pressure of having to settle almost immediately after the game starts. Indeed, they can wander around for the first few turns looking for an ideal spot with a [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farm)-able [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource) to instantaneously unlock Irrigation and get their unique building up and running in no time. It is actually quite viable to start training a Builder to put down a Farm on a resource, then move on to build the Palgum immediately, so that your will receive this huge boost of and ; however, by doing so, you will have to forgo early exploration. 