# Paratrooper (Civ5)

Game Info.
Special front-line unit of the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Atomic Era).
Strategy.
The Paratrooper is specially developed to breach enemy lines. This specialized infantry unit acts coupled with transport airplanes that allow him to use a Paradrop maneuver to instantly move up to 9 tiles into enemy [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory), as long as he starts in friendly territory. He can then use his remaining to take up a suitable attack position. (He may not, however, attack on the same turn that he is paradropped.) This allows the Paratrooper to literally jump over enemy positions and destroy [Road%20%28Civ5%29](road) networks, pillage vital [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements) so the enemy gets a [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resource) penalty and so forth, wreaking havoc behind the enemy's lines. The Paratrooper is at great risk when on such missions, so make sure the target is worth it!
Alternatively, Paratroopers may be used to attack vulnerable parts of the enemy line from behind, just as your main army attacks in the front. They are almost as powerful as [Infantry%20%28Civ5%29](Infantry), so they are very effective against enemy artillery, for example.
The Paratrooper's Paradrop ability also makes him a great candidate for the Medic I and Medic II [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions), allowing him to get to the center of your wounded troops in a single turn.
In "", [XCOM%20Squad%20%28Civ5%29](XCOM Squads) that are upgraded from Paratroopers keep both the "No Movement Cost to Pillage" ability and their 9-[hex](hex) paradrop range, creating units with a 49-hex paradrop range (the 40-hex range of the XCOM Squad plus the 9-hex range of the Paratrooper) that can pillage tiles without expending .