# Pathfinder (Civ5)

Game Info.
[Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](Unique) recon unit of the [Shoshone%20%28Civ5%29](Shoshone) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Replaces the [Scout%20%28Civ5%29](Scout). Available right from the start of the game.
Strategy.
Excellent at scouting and fearsome in combat, the Pathfinders are an incredibly versatile and useful early unit.
First of all, their ability to choose a benefit when entering [Ancient%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruins) gives you control over what bonuses to development you receive. In the hands of a skilled player, this alone may prove a crucial advantage in the early game! Of course, you have to first find Ancient Ruins in order to use this benefit. Also note that you may not always have the choice from a complete list of rewards - the same type of reward can't be chosen again for the next two or three ruins. Finally, you can choose a [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technological advance), but you can't choose which particular tech you will discover.
Second, the Pathfinder is also valuable as a military unit. They cost more to produce than a Scout, but also have a much higher combat strength, putting them on par with [Warrior%20%28Civ5%29](Warriors). The potential downside to this would be that, just like a regular Scout, you can't upgrade them normally, which would only make them useful early in the game while there are still unexplored ruins remaining. However, their ability to choose an Ancient Ruin benefit also allows them to upgrade to [Composite%20Bowman%20%28Civ5%29](Composite Bowmen) (while still retaining all of their abilities). This guarantees early access to a powerful ranged unit with a promotion to ignore [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) cost. The original Pathfinder will prove itself many times over by continually upgrading the unit along the Composite Bowman's path. But in order to use this, remember that you DO need to find an Ancient Ruin and use it to upgrade the unit! So, consider the limited availability of these before making an entire army of Pathfinders and then discovering that you've exhausted the available ruins! A good strategy here is to set a deadline (e.g., turn 30 or 40) by which you will use every ruin you encounter to upgrade your Pathfinders, instead of getting other bonuses that gradually diminish in usefulness as the game progresses.