# Païtiti (Civ6)

Païtiti is a three-tile impassable in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" that was added in the [Maya%20%26amp%3B%20Gran%20Colombia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Maya &amp; Gran Colombia Pack). Each wonder [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) provides +2 , +3 , and +2 [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal) to adjacent tiles. [City%20%28Civ6%29](Cities) that own tiles of Païtiti gain a +4 bonus on their international s.
In "", discovering Païtiti grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
Strategy.
Simply put, Païtiti is one of the absolute best natural wonders in the game - it's essentially a much better version of both [Piopiotahi%20%28Civ6%29](Piopiotahi) and the [Cliffs%20of%20Dover%20%28Civ6%29](Cliffs of Dover), giving more total yields on more tiles and not locked into spawning on [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) tiles. The amount of and it gives is huge, and settling near this wonder in the early game will usually catapult the player to a very strong early lead, setting up a strong snowball. As is hard to come by early on, it becomes a very valued yield, and Païtiti hands out a lot of it. This is one of the few natural wonders that players should actively contest and fight for because of the long-term advantages it secures.
The effect from Païtiti can apply to any city that owns one of its tiles, regardless of how far away that city is. This makes it a good idea to split up the tiles so you can potentially have three cities getting +4 bonuses on each international , and also allows cities which are 4-5 [hex](hex)es away from Païtiti to still benefit from this effect. Be sure to allow cities in this situation time to grow, as once another city owns those tiles they can no longer be swapped back to a city that's 4-5 hexes away.