# Philanthropy (Civ5)

Philanthropy is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) tree.
Establishing the great tradition of philanthropy is the first step towards becoming a diplomatic power. Fate always gives more wealth to some than to most, and when they choose to share their wealth with their fellow citizens, everyone benefits. A philanthropist doesn't simply aid the poor, however. He looks for a worthy person, pursuing a worthy occupation, and helps him in his endeavors, which in turn benefits all society. And when the state chooses to encourage and direct these laudable activities, the results can be truly amazing!
Strategy.
Philanthropy is a great starting policy which immediately lets the player get more for his or her buck. When you combine this effect with the boost during the special quests [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-States) give you, the result becomes outstanding: a single 1000 gift can provide almost 200 if given at the right moment in the game. That, and the policy being the requirement for more advanced policies in the tree, usually makes adopting Philanthropy first a no-brainer.
You should, however, consider the state of your treasury when you decide. The required for gifts doesn't diminish; instead, it is the obtained that increases. If you don't have enough lying around to distribute gifts, you won't get the immediate results you may be looking for. In this case, it's better to start with [Consulates%20%28Civ5%29](Consulates), the other level 1 policy in the tree, which provides both an immediate and long-term benefit.