# Pikeman (Civ6)

The Pikeman is a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Anti-cavalry](anti-cavalry unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It upgrades from the [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman) (or its replacements).
In the ' expansion, the Pikeman can upgrade to a [Pike%20and%20Shot%20%28Civ6%29](Pike and Shot). In the ' expansion, its cost is decreased from 200 to 180, its purchasing cost is decreased from 800 to 720, and its maintenance cost is decreased from 3 to 2.
Strategy.
Come the Medieval Era, civilizations with access to can start fielding [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights), whose great mobility and Combat Strength can be devastating on the battlefield. Pikemen are your best defense against them, and have the advantage of not requiring any [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) to produce. Use their long pikes to keep enemy Knights at bay, and provide a decent line of defense even if you have no . Try to avoid having them fight [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Men-At-Arms), however, until they earn [Thrust%20%28Civ6%29](Thrust) and [Schiltron%20%28Civ6%29](Schiltron) - Pikemen with these s are a force to be reckoned with, but without them, the +5 Combat Strength bonus Men-At-Arms receive against anti-cavalry units will turn the tide in their favor.
Make sure to upgrade your Pikemen as soon as possible. Pikes alone become useless against the muskets of the [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry), whereas the Pike and Shot and the [AT%20Crew%20%28Civ6%29](AT Crew) have the strength to resist them.
Like the Spearmen from which they upgrade, Pikemen serve as the guards of [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](barbarian) outposts, making them difficult for Knights to capture and allowing them to withstand a few attacks from stronger cavalry units.