# Polynesian (Civ5)

The Polynesian people represent a [DLC%20%28Civ5%29](DLC) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) for "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" that was released in March 2011 along with the [Paradise%20Found%20%28Civ5%29](Paradise Found) [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario). Like the [Danish%20%28Civ5%29](Danes), they have a unique sprite for their [Embarkation%20%28Civ5%29](embarked) [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units).
Strategy.
The Polynesians are a very interesting civilization, with a [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) and [Unique%20improvement%20%28Civ5%29](improvement) that allow them to be culturally dominant without necessarily having a small empire. Polynesian units can move through open seas from the very start of the game, permitting them to start settling foreign lands much earlier than any other civilization. One way to capitalize on this advantage is to build some reconnaissance units as soon as possible and start exploring the seas - they are able to find all these interesting places in the middle of the ocean while the other nations are still fighting [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians). Then send task forces of some of their fierce [Maori%20Warrior%20%28Civ5%29](Maori Warriors) (conveniently available right from the start of the game) followed by [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers), clear out the Barbarians, and start creating colonies in the best spots.
Since Polynesia can embark before any other civilization, using three or four [Scout%20%28Civ5%29](Scouts) to clear the [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) of [Ancient%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruins) can be extremely profitable. It is often possible to pick up several free [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technologies), expand the with survivors and pick up enough and/or to obtain an early advantage, along with scouting prime settlement locations. Be on the lookout for both [Resources%20%28Civ5%29%23Luxury%20Resources](luxury resources) and settlement locations that can choke off opponents' progress. There is also a good chance of discovering one or more [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ5%29](natural wonders), generating that will expedite early expansion.
While it is prudent to be careful with Scouts initially to prevent them from dying at the hands of Barbarians, in all likelihood they will eventually pick up advanced weapons in one of the ruins and become [Archer%20%28Civ5%29](Archers), which can form the backbone of an army. Consider adopting [Honor%20%28Civ5%29](Honor) even if not planning on adopting all the [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policies) in the tree, since Barbarians are then more easily killed and also yield .
The [Moai%20%28Civ5%29](Moai) are very important. These improvements allow the Polynesians not only to speed up cultural development, but also to defend their lands if built along the borders of new colonies. The cultural bonus stacks, so that Moai generate +1 for each adjacent Moai. A focus on settling coasts (which is highly recommended with Polynesia) will make it feasible to strategically build Moai that are each generating 2-4 per turn. [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](Coastal) [Desert%20%28Civ5%29](deserts) and [Tundra%20%28Civ5%29](tundra) become more desirable due to this, since Moai open the option of turning remote cities into culture engines. Similarly, inner cities can use the -generating potential of Moai to become absolute cultural powerhouses.
These special advantages are most useful in the early and middle game, so it's advisable to expand an empire as fast as possible. This is doubly important on island maps, on which they will be able to reach faraway islands long before the other civilizations have researched [Astronomy%20%28Civ5%29](Astronomy). Adopt the [Liberty%20%28Civ5%29](Liberty) policy tree to help with that. Use the fierce Maori Warriors to deal with any Barbarian dangers and to defend early settlements, then upgrade them along the chain to preserve their special ability.
A special advantage is that all naval vessels Polynesia controls can cross open ocean. This includes [Trireme%20%28Civ5%29](Triremes), [Galleass%20%28Civ5%29](Galleasses), and even captured [Turtle%20Ship%20%28Civ5%29](Turtle Ships).