# Population (Civ6)

Population is a measure of the number of Citizens living in a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" and its expansions. The icon for Citizens is sometimes used to represent population.
Growth mechanics.
Population growth (the increase of the number of Citizens) is tracked on a per-city basis, and is one of the most fluid elements in the game. It is affected by a number of game systems, but there are three main determining factors: , , and . The Citizen Growth section of the City Details tab shows a comprehensive list of all factors affecting population growth.
Requirements.
The amount of required for a city's population to grow steadily increases as the number of Citizens increases. The following table shows how much is required for population growth based on a city's current population (on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed)).
Food.
Availability of determines if, and how fast, a city's population can grow. Each Citizen living in a city consumes 2 per turn, which forms the city's total consumption. This is compared to the city's total production per turn, and any excess , modified by the various growth factors, is added to the city's current "food basket." This basket measures the progress towards population growth; its size is greater for each successive Citizen after the first. When the food basket is full, the city's population increases by 1. Conversely, the food basket empties each turn that the city does not produce enough for all its Citizens, and the city's population decreases by 1 when the basket is empty. If the two factors are balanced, population growth stagnates, neither increasing nor decreasing.
The first section of Citizen Growth shows the current state of all modifiers; it also shows the exact amount of needed in the current basket for the city to grow. The big bar at the end shows how many turns there are until growth, or loss of a citizen.
There are many ways to increase supply in a city, and the more the game progresses, the more ways become available. The game will always keep track of the supplies of each city, and issue an immediate alert should you have problems with it.
There is one particular situation in which city growth itself may become the reason for losing a Citizen: if the city's surplus is not more than 1 and there are no more [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) to work around the city which provide at least 1 , the next Citizen who is born will require an additional 2 , thus bringing the balance into negative territory. Of course, this situation will be remedied automatically the next turn, when the food basket empties and a Citizen dies of starvation. That is why you should always pay attention to alerts appearing among the others.
Housing.
 represents the living space and sanitary conditions available in a city and acts as a soft limit on population growth, as follows:
Amenities.
 represent luxuries and entertainment available in a city and also influence the rate at which its population grows. A city needs no for its first 2 Citizens; the requirement only appears once the count reaches 3, after which every 2 Citizens beyond that increase the required number of by one.
Other factors.
In addition to the factors mentioned above, the [Hanging%20Gardens%20%28Civ6%29](Hanging Gardens) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) and the [Fertility%20Rites%20%28Civ6%29](Fertility Rites) [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) directly modify population growth rates (by +15% and +10%, respectively). Also, there are a number of [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) which increase growth indirectly, mainly through boosting the three main growth factors described above.
In "", [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus') [Surplus%20Logistics%20%28Civ6%29](Surplus Logistics) title increases population growth by 20% if he is established in a city as its [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor). The [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) system also affects population growth, with cities suffering the following growth penalties for low Loyalty:
Losing population.
Apart from starvation, there are a few other ways in which a city's population can diminish:
Citizens as workers.
 Citizens, the products of population growth, are producers as well as consumers. Each Citizen in a city automatically produces 0.5 (as of the [Civilization%20VI%20February%207%2C%202018%20Update](February 7, 2018 Update)) and 0.2 per turn. More importantly, each Citizen can work one tile within the city's [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](borders), adding its yields to the city. Citizens can also work as [Specialists%20%28Civ6%29](Specialists), filling slots in [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) in specialty s and providing the city with additional , , , , and/or based on their role. In practice, this means that any given city's productivity mainly depends on the number of its Citizens: the more Citizens, the more land and Specialist slots in the city may be worked, and the more yields added. Note, however, that the special effects of [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic) and [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](luxury resources) can be enjoyed even without a Citizen working their tile.
Furthermore, Citizens can become religious, and help spread the city's dominant [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) to nearby cities. More information about this process can be found [Religion%20%28Civ6%29%23Mechanics](here).
There is only one drawback to large cities: they require many more to remain happy. However, any good governor should be able to easily provide at least the minimum number of to keep his or her cities normally productive, albeit without bonuses.
Strategy.
As detailed above, the primary factor for population growth is availability of . You should always plan ahead and if you intend to settle arid regions ([Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra), [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert)), you should attempt to find alternative ways of providing . If there is a sea or lake nearby, settle there to use the water for fishing. And if you absolutely have to settle in one of these regions and have no other way to provide a city with , separate a [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Trader) or two and establish domestic s from the new city.
Even after securing enough , there are additional factors to take care of. The best way to keep a city's population growing is to make sure it has enough and to keep pace with its supply. If one wants to create a city with the largest possible population, building Neighborhoods on tiles with high [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal), placing [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes) or [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Parks) in surrounding cities so that the central city benefits from their bonus, and using domestic s to provide the city with will eventually allow it to grow into a sprawling megalopolis. With the proper layout, it's possible to create a city with a population of well over 100.