# Population (Civ5)

 Population is a term used in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" to represent the s living in each of the population centers ([City%20%28Civ5%29](cities)) of the [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). s are the main laborers of the empire, working the tiles of [terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) around the city, as well as the slots, to obtain yields. As such, they're paramount for the productivity of each city, and the empire as a whole.
 is represented by a number that indicates both the number of s inhabiting a city and its general size. This number is "not" literal, and is instead used for gameplay purposes: an individual can work one tile, or use one slot, or be . If a city has 1 , or a single , it does not mean there is literally only one person living there; it means the city is a very small village. A city with a of 10 is a concentrated urban area, and a city with a of 20 or more is a major metropolitan area. The size differences between cities are represented graphically as well: whereas a newly founded village will barely occupy the middle of its tile, a sprawling metropolis will appear to spill over into neighboring tiles.
Each new city starts with a of 1, or 1 . This means that it can work one nearby tile (in addition to the tile the city is placed upon, which is worked for free). It can subsequently grow or shrink its according to the rules of consumption and distribution, though it will always have at least 1 .
Apart from producing tile yields, s also contribute to production at the rate of 1 per without additional [building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings). Each unit of produces 1 , and so serves to cap the number of s in the empire.