# Power Plant (Civ6)

The Power Plant is an advanced [Production%20%28Civ6%29](production) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and requires a [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory) (or one of its replacements).
This building is only available in the [vanilla](vanilla) version and in '. In ', it is replaced with three different types of Power Plant that players can choose from: [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant), [Oil%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Oil Power Plant) and [Nuclear%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Power Plant).
Strategy.
The ultimate booster in the game, the Power Plant has the same special ability as the Factory: to extend its bonus to other [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities). So, the earlier you manage to build it in your strategically placed Industrial Zones, the better!
"Gathering Storm".
In the "Gathering Storm" expansion, the Power Plant building is split now into three new buildings: the Coal Power Plant, the Oil Power Plant, and the Nuclear Power Plant. They are all constructed in the Industrial Zone as a Tier 3 building, in the place of the old generic Power Plant, and are one of the main ingredients of the new system.
Multiple Power Plants.
Each district may contain only one type of Power Plant at any given time. However, there are now special city [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects) via which the existing Power Plant in the city may be switched to another type.
Some Power Plants can extend their and bonuses to nearby City Centers. When multiple Power Plants are within range of a City Center, the highest bonus in that City Center takes precedence.
For example, suppose City A has a Coal Power Plant which gives +6 due to its Industrial Zone having +6 adjacency bonus and City A is also in range of a Nuclear Power Plant of City B, which gives +4 and +3 . In this case, the higher bonuses take precedence. Thus City A receives +6 and +3 from Power Plants while City B receives +4 and +3 . Bonuses from the two Power Plants do not stack unless [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) with [Vertical%20Integration%20%28Civ6%29](the appropriate title) is present.