# Prasat (Civ6)

The Prasat is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Khmer%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and replaces the [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple).
Strategy.
The Prasat is an incredible replacement for the Temple, as it provides an extra layer of rewards whenever a Khmer city reaches a Population checkpoint while supplying an excellent output of and in the meantime.
First, the Prasat's base yield is 6, compared to the standard 4 of the Temple. As a civilization with victory skews towards a religious or a cultural victory, this is useful right off the bat. This advantage over the regular Temple is amplified further when the [Simultaneum%20%28Civ6%29](Simultaneum) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) is run, and the Khmer is the one civilization who has no problem satisfying both the adjacency bonus condition and the Population condition set by the card.
Second, and more importantly, it grants 0.5 for every Population in the city. Normally, each point of Population grants 0.3 , the Prasat lifts this number up to 0.8, more than double what it used to be. A city with 10 Population generates 8 per turn, just from this building alone, that is twice the amount of granted by a Temple with Choral Music [Beliefs%20%28Civ6%29](belief). The interesting aspect of this bonus is that the Prasat itself does not provide any means to boost growth, but only more incentives for you to grow populous cities. Although the Khmer can enjoy a health level of from their [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) combined with the [River%20Goddess%20%28Civ6%29](River Goddess) [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) and [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts), the amount of bonus from Farms next to Aqueducts may not be sufficient to reliably raise the Population of every city to 20. Here are some other sources that may be useful:
With Flight, the Prasat also supplies 10 to any city with at least 10 Population or 20 to cities with at least 20. This huge burst of will help usher the Khmer toward a cultural victory a lot faster. Therefore, once a city reaches the milestone of 20 Population, consider focus your growth power somewhere else, like swapping tiles, moving [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) with the [Surplus%20Logistics%20%28Civ6%29](Surplus Logistics) title and s to other cities. It is also worth noting that the [Stadium%20%28Civ6%29](Stadium) also grants a bit of based on cities' Population, making it a useful complementary piece to the Prasat, even without taking into consideration that Stadiums and [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes) help alleviate issues the Khmer is guaranteed to run into.