# Preslav (Civ6)

Preslav is a militaristic [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". 
Strategy.
In the vanilla version, the Suzerain of Preslav gains 5 Combat Strength of their light and heavy cavalry units when fighting on Hills tiles. A bonus cannot get any more conditional than that. Considering in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", the site of the battle is where the defender stands, your cavalry units basically gain a net Combat Strength of 2 when attacking into Hills tiles (since the defender will gain 3 Combat Strength from the terrain modifier). Of course, this bonus makes your cavalry units a bit sturdier when they defend on Hills, but all the enemy needs to do is to avoid attacking these unit classes when they end their turn on Hills tiles. Overall, no one should go through troubles to vie for the Suzerainty of this city-state, just to get the bonus completely nullified if the enemy uses their common sense. 
Considering how little Preslav's bonus is in vanilla, it is quite unbelievable that somehow "" manages to rework it to be even worse. [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) bonuses are often negligible, since the only times you notice Loyalty bonuses being useful is when you are in deep trouble. You will not go out of your way to build [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) to increase your Loyalty per turn for nothing. Also, whether this bonus becomes useful in conquest depends on if your enemies build Encampments with buildings in their cities, not on you and your decision, since you will never have enough time to construct an Encampment from scratch and put a few buildings in to raise the Loyalty pressure to keep your new territory in check. 
No matter what version of the game you are playing, any non-free into Preslav is a bad investment. While [Mogadishu%20%28Civ6%29](Mogadishu), another city-state known to be almost useless, has some values on certain [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) types, the only amazing thing about Preslav is how it can stay consistently trivial across every game setting and version despite a major overhaul to its bonus and many changes to the landscape of the game over the years. 