# Preserve (Civ6)

The Preserve is a specialty in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", dedicated to conservation and [Appeal%20%28Civ6%29](Appeal). It requires the [Mysticism%20%28Civ6%29](Mysticism) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic).
Buildings.
The following [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) can be constructed in a Preserve:
Unlike other district buildings, you can build these buildings in any order provided that you have unlocked them both.
Strategy.
The main purpose of the Preserve is to boost the Appeal and the yields of nearby unimproved [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), therefore making them useful even without special infrastructure. It can be built anywhere, as long as it is away from the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center). The Preserve is unique in a sense that instead of gaining [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) from surrounding tiles, unimproved surrounding tiles benefit from being adjacent to the Preserve.
There are several points to consider when constructing a Preserve:
With these points in mind, we can conclude that the Preserve may become incredibly useful very early in the game for civilizations which start in regions with high Appeal (near [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) or [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coasts), but far from [River%20%28Civ6%29](rivers) with [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) or Rainforests). Rush Mysticism, plop down a Preserve and build its Grove, then watch these Charming and Breathtaking tiles turbo-boost your city's growth, , and (both very important for any [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) seeking general development). Later on, even more interesting yields will appear when you build the [Sanctuary%20%28Civ6%29](Sanctuary).
For cities situated in less appealing regions, the Preserve has little use. Yes, you can use the extra [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory), but you will rarely gain more than 1 from it, or manage to push nearby tiles' Appeal rating above 1 so as to gain extra yields. Instead, try to use the Preserve in regions with terrain which has no resources or features, or where common [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements) cannot be built (such as [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert), [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra), or [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow)). If you find ways to make them at least Charming, it will be worth it.
Because the Preserve increases the Appeal of and triggers a Culture Bomb on surrounding tiles, it is best placed 2 [hex](hex)es away from the City Center. Tiles you plan to incorporate into [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) or improve with [Seaside%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Seaside Resorts) can also benefit from a nearby Preserve: National Parks and Seaside Resorts must be built on tiles of high enough Appeal (Charming and Breathtaking, respectively), which a Preserve can help you achieve. Keep in mind that in order to establish a National Park, all 4 tiles within that Park need to be unimproved and the Preserve itself is a , so it cannot be included in a National Park. The Preserve is also a good source of , especially in the early game.
Although it is generally worthwhile to leave adjacent tiles unimproved due to the yields supplied by the Grove and the Sanctuary, it is worth noting that [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhoods) gain more based on Appeal, so if your land Appeal is very bad overall (as is often the case when playing as the [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gauls), for instance) it may be worth placing them next to a city's Preserve as a last resort. [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia) and the [Mapuche%20%28Civ6%29](Mapuche) are a couple of [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) that may also want to build infrastructure adjacent to their Preserves. Preserves are also a fine way to make use of tiles that cannot be improved normally (like [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonders), or s in the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode)) or are at risk of being hit by [Disaster%20%28Civ6%29](disasters) (like those adjacent to active [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanoes), which will often contain [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil)).
Finally, there are some unique bonuses that seem to especially encourage leaving nature untouched, and these synergize with this district even better:
Bugs.
Unlike other specialty districts, the Preserve doesn't have a district cost discount and doesn't provide +2 Combat Strength to city defenses.