# Printing (Civ6)

Printing is a [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building 2 [University%20%28Civ6%29](Universities).
Strategy.
The invention of the printing press is a milestone of modern society (despite modern society not recognizing that). Printing allows for knowledge to be distributed en masse via inexpensive, mass-produced books. Consequently, it makes modern education possible. Discovering printing also brings the fame of your [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization's) writings to the world, and allows you better diplomatic access to them.
After researching Printing, a civilization's [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) will apply 50% more religious pressure if it chooses Scripture as an [Religion%20%28Civ6%29%23Enhancer%20Beliefs](Enhancer Belief) for its religion.
This tech's importance is often underestimated - it only unlocks one [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder), and has some good effects on and the diplomatic front. This wonder, however, is one of the best in the entire game, being the second that adds a [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) slot (and a Wildcard slot at that); the yields are increased for the earliest available type of [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works), allowing a civ to get a solid boost towards a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory); and finally, another level of Diplomatic Visibility now has even military implications! What's more, Printing is fairly easy to beeline for once you get [Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Engineering).
All this should make Printing a prime candidate to be the first Renaissance Era tech you get. Once you discover it, start building the [Forbidden%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Forbidden City) right away (its positioning requirements are ridiculously easy to fulfill) - you won't be sorry, whatever victory you're pursuing.