# Production (Civ6)

 Production is one of the main statistics in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is the measure by which [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) build [Units%20%28Civ6%29](units), [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](buildings), s, and [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders) and complete [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects). As such it is as important as , since it determines the speed with which any city builds things. However, unlike Food, Production can be converted into other statistics like , , or by completing projects, making Production arguably even more important than Food, as a city with a large population still cannot produce anything without Production.
Mechanics.
Each thing a city may build costs a certain amount of Production points. In most cases the amounts are stable (i.e. the same thing costs the same amount of Production, regardless of what happens), but there are cases where Production costs scale up (notably this is the case with district costs). In all cases the game shows this production cost as a number of turns needed to complete the thing, but if you look more closely at the tooltips you can see the Production Point cost itself.
To produce anything, the city has to put it in its Production queue. Then, at the end of each turn, the city contributes its Production power to the project until it is finished. Under normal circumstances, this happens at the beginning of a turn (because the last contribution would have been at the end of the previous turn), but there are certain cases when a project may be finished in the middle of a turn thanks to an action you take (e.g. harvesting a [Resources%20%28Civ6%29](resource) or removing a [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29%23Features](terrain feature)).
Projects (and units, buildings, or anything else that the city produces) may be left half-finished. Progress is not lost; it is simply stalled while the city turns its production facilities to something else. It may later be retaken from the point where it was abandoned.
There are many bonuses which may apply to certain types of building projects, but not to others. The most common case is [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) production contributions: Militaristic City-States aid unit production, but nothing else; Industrial City-States aid building, wonder, and project production, but "not" unit production. These special bonuses apply after the project is started, and thus you may see a discrepancy between the number of turns estimated to finish something, and the real number of turns it takes.
There are also many [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Cards) which affect Production, and again most of them only apply to certain kind of projects. Their Production boosts are taken into account in estimates, and thus you shouldn't see discrepancies.
Production Overflow.
Overflow can happen during feature removal ([Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest)) or resource harvesting () and to a smaller extent at the end of player turns. If the Production gain is enough to finish the current unit or building the remaining overflow will go into the next item.
Prior to the "" expansion, any overflow gained while using Production-enhancing policies was kept (e.g. 50% for [Units%20%28Civ6%29%23Melee](Melee) and [Units%20%28Civ6%29%23Ranged](Ranged units) with [Agoge%20%28Civ6%29](Agoge), 100% for [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Walls) with [Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes), 100% for [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](ships) with [Maritime%20Industries%20%28Civ6%29](Maritime Industries)). This allowed for strange situations where players would build units or Walls to 1 turn before chopping with the policies active to generate very large Production overflows into more valuable projects like Districts and Wonders. This has since been changed, and now all overflow gained from Policy Cards is lost if the unit or building is completed. This makes chopping effective only for expensive items that can fully benefit from the bonus provided by the Policy Card.
This means there are 3 situations the player might find themselves in when using a [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builder) to remove a feature or harvest a resource while using Production-enhancing policies:
For example, with 220 Production [Medieval%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Walls), the [Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes) Policy Card and a 100 Production chop:
Note that base overflow available for next item can be enhanced by Policy Cards. (Chop a nearly completed unit and start Walls with Limes slotted.)
Note that the same is true with [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Engineers) that provide Wonder Production.
However, production overflow was fixed in [Civilization%20VI%20February%202019%20Update](February 2019 Update) (Release of ). If you use a policy card that boosts the production of walls +100% ([Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes)) and are actually building a wall, only the part of the chop that's actually used for the wall is boosted. If you select a land unit next (or have it in the queue), the remainder of the chop only applies normally. But if you have the Limes card and build a land unit while chopping, any leftover from the chop will be boosted if you select a wall next.
Sources.
 Production is obtained from a wide range of sources. The first and most powerful is [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) and its resources, worked by Citizens. This is usually the very first source of Production for a new city - and for quite some time, the only one, apart from Policy Cards.
Terrain.
Terrain and its features grant base Production yields when worked. However, Production potential is found less often than , and consequently may be considered more valuable. Only one base terrain, [Plains%20%28Civ6%29](Plains), has 1 Production potential, but two very common features add 1 Production to any base terrain: [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) and [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods). It is a common mistake to assume that [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforest) also gives Production yield, when in fact they yield ; however, they are always found on [Plains%20%28Civ6%29](Plains), and the Production comes from that base terrain (despite the fact that Rainforests yield both Production and when cut down).
In "[Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm)", Production can be granted to various types of base terrain when they get hit by [Floods%20%28Civ6%29](Floods), [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Eruptions) and most [Storm%20%28Civ6%29](Storms) via the process known as 'fertilization'.
Resources.
Many resources grant bonus Production yields, with [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](Strategic Resources) contributing the most. These are:
, , , , , , and grant additional Production with their respective [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements).
Tile Improvements.
The [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mine) is one of the basic tile improvements and is specifically dedicated to boosting Production. It can be built both on resources and Hills of any kind, which makes it very versatile. Also, its Production bonuses are the best of any improvement, and become available the earliest:
Other tile improvements also grant Production bonuses, albeit less than the Mine. They are also restricted to particular resources. These tile improvements are:
Districts and Buildings.
Next, the [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone) district, and its replacements, the [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29](Hansa) and [Oppidum%20%28Civ6%29](Oppidum), are focused entirely on Production: its adjacency bonuses, building yields and Specialists all increase Production. In addition, the [Factory%20%28Civ6%29](Factory) and the [Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Power Plant) extend their Production bonus to other cities within 6 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles). (In "" this is not valid for the [Coal%20Power%20Plant%20%28Civ6%29](Coal Power Plant), whose Production bonus applies only to its own city.)
Other districts also aid Production, although this isn't their main focus. [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) district buildings grant Production yields, albeit smaller than those of the Industrial Zone. Also, Specialized Citizens there yields +1 Production each. The [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor's) [Shipyard%20%28Civ6%29](Shipyard) also grants bonus Production equal to the adjacency bonus of its district. Finally, the [Aerodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Aerodrome's) buildings both yield bonus Production.
As mentioned above, Industrial and Militaristic [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) grant up to +4 Production in every Industrial Zone/Encampment district (plus an additional +2 in the ), based on the number of s assigned to that particular city-state.
Trade Routes.
s are another common source of Production. Any domestic route contributes, but so do international ones, as long as the destination city has Production-providing districts such as Encampments, Harbors, [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs), and Industrial Zones. s can significantly boost a city's Production and be the saving grace of cities built in plains with no resources to mine nearby. [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](Coastal) cities, too, often have troubles with Production, and could use s to help.
Religious Beliefs.
Some [Religion%20%28Civ6%29%23Beliefs](religious beliefs) grant respective Production bonuses, including:
Wonders.
There are several Wonders that grant Production boosts upon completion. These include:
There are also [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonders) that provide Production:
Policy Cards.
Many Policy Cards grant bonus Production once their conditions are met, but note that most of these only apply to certain things, and only for a certain time period. These include:
Unique Bonuses.
There are only a few unique pieces of infrastructure and civ/leader abilities that grant special Production bonuses: