# Production (Civ4)

Production in "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" refers to one of two things:
Production.
A city in [civil%20disorder](civil disorder) produces nothing, does not gain or lose population, and costs no maintenance. Otherwise, the computations specified below are applied by the game.
Base Production.
Each city always gets the production for the tile it sits on. This is usually 2 Food, 1 Hammer, and 1 Commerce, although certain city sites can get a bit more. 
Each city has 1 or more citizens. All happy citizens produce something, either via working tiles in the city's workable area, or as a [Specialists%20%28Civ4%29](specialist). You can see where population are in a city in the city screen. Tiles that are being worked have a white circle, and also show their tile production with slightly larger icons. Unhappy citizens are shown in red on the right of the screen. Specialists also show on the right, as do super specialists. Super specialists produce various intermediate goods but do not eat any food.
To compute a city's production, the game first adds up the [Food%20%28Civ4%29](food), hammers, and [Commerce%20%28Civ4%29](commerce) produced by each worked tile. Additional commerce is added by each [Trade%20route%20%28Civ4%29](trade route) that the city has. Commerce is multiplied by just one possible factor: if the civilization is running the [Bureaucracy%20%28Civ4%29](Bureaucracy) civic, and the city is its capital, then it gets +50% commerce (i.e. commerce is multiplied by 1.5). Commerce is then divided according to the spending sliders, into base forms of science, gold, culture, and espionage.
Additional base food, hammers, [Science%20%28Civ4%29](science), gold, culture, and [Espionage%20%28Civ4%29](espionage) are added by specialists, super specialists, and buildings.
Multipliers.
At this point, multipliers for each particular category are applied. Most multipliers come from buildings (e.g. a [Library%20%28Civ4%29](Library) gives its city +25% science), but multipliers can also come from [List%20of%20civics%20in%20Civ4](civics) (e.g. [Free%20Religion%20%28Civ4%29](Free Religion) gets +10% science in all cities). Whatever the source, all multipliers are added together, and then applied to the base amount of the good in question. For example, if a city has a Library and its civilization is running Free Religion, it will multiply whatever its amount of base science is by 1.35 (100% + 25% + 10% = 135%).
Subtractions.
Finally, a few subtractions are made. For food, subtractions are made according to population of the city. Each population point eats 2 Food per turn. In addition, if the population is above the city's health limit, each point of population above the limit eats one additional food.
[Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28Civ4%29](Gold) is subtracted for city [maintenance](maintenance) costs. Other than food and gold, no other products have subtractions.
Application.
At this point, production is complete. The finished products are then applied to the civilization, the city, or the city's area on a per-product basis. Specifically, here is how products are applied:
Hammers.
Hammers are the means of measuring a tile's (or city's) production potential. There are three primary sources of hammers.
Terrain.
Hammers are produced inherently by these types of [Terrain%20%28Civ4%29](terrain):
Tile Improvements.
Additional hammers may be generated by these [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ4%29](tile improvements):
Resources.
Some [Resource%20%28Civ4%29](resources) generate hammers. These resources add 1 Hammer to their tile even before they are improved, and they generate more hammers if improved with the proper tile improvement:
Some resources add hammers only when they've been improved with the particular improvement which unlocks the resource: