# Professional Army (Civ6)

Professional Army is a Military [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
In the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202019%20Update](Antarctic Late Summer Update), Professional Army's effect of providing a [Resources%20%28Civ6%29](resource) discount on [Units%20%28Civ6%29](unit) upgrades was transferred to [Retinues%20%28Civ6%29](Retinues) and its original effects were inherited by [Force%20Modernization%20%28Civ6%29](Force Modernization).
Strategy.
This is one of the most useful Military Policies in the entire game, hands down! The process of upgrading your military [Units%20%28Civ6%29](units) is constant, going throughout the entire game. All upgrades cost , and after the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) they start costing quite a bit of it! It goes without saying how valuable Professional Army is for cutting these costs in half, especially when the normal cost of upgrading units is 300+ !
The way to use this Policy is: you gather your (using other permanent -saving Policies in the meantime, such as [Conscription%20%28Civ6%29](Conscription)), you develop your tech, and when you're ready you slot Professional Army and upgrade as many units as you can for the several turns you will have the Policy. Then slot back the money-saving Policy. Rinse and repeat as necessary. For militaristic civilizations with lots of units this is especially useful, as they will spend huge amounts of both to maintain their army and to upgrade it - any savings are very welcome!
Of course, sometimes there will be emergencies, such as when a neighbor declares a [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23Surprise%20War](Surprise War) and you find yourself with an outdated army. In such cases you might want to upgrade several crucial units right away, without waiting to slot Professional Army.