# Public Transportation (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Public Transit is designed to encourage citizens to avoid more polluting forms of transportation, such as automobiles, and reduce traffic congestion as well. It also provides an affordable option for getting around town efficiently. A city with public transportation experiences a dramatic reduction in from population.
Great Library entry.
The first modern public transportation systems date back to 16th and 17th century Europe, where horse-drawn carriages offered for-hire transportation between major towns. Carriage systems existed in large cities as well, eventually replaced in the 19th century by stagecoaches and, later, omnibuses. In 1832, New York City introduced horse-drawn streetcars that ran on iron rails rather than wagon wheels. Rails reduced friction, making it easier for horses to pull the rail cars. By the 1860s, most U.S. cities had horse- or mule-powered street franchised by the city. Andrew Hallidie invented the cable car, of which the first successful system was opened in San Francisco in 1873. Its propulsion system relied on cables running the length of the tracks rather than waste-producing, disease-prone horses. More than 30 cities employed similar systems, which were later replaced by electric streetcar systems.
In 1888, electric power revolutionized urban public transportation with the completion of the first electrified streetcar line in Richmond, Virginia. Subway systems were also popular with London, England, Boston, Massachusetts and New York City all opening electric subways systems around the turn of the century. Modern cities the world over employed a combination of subways, light rail and bus systems to shuttle large groups of people around quickly and cheaply. Public transit systems were more prevalent in older cities, because these cities established public transportation well before automobile use was common. Population density played a role as well. Higher density cities needed public transportation more, especially one with major business districts.
Well-implemented public transit produced enormous benefits for communities: improved air-quality, less land consumption, lower energy requirements and lower accident costs. Because many people are carried in the same vehicle, transportation takes up less space and energy than automobile-based systems. Busses, which are the backbone of many city transit systems, have lower accident rates than autos, mainly due to their operation by professional drivers. Subway and light rail systems are safer and more cost-effective by far than autos or buses.