# Public School (Civ5)

Game Info.
Science building of the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era). Requires [University%20%28Civ5%29](University) or [Wat%20%28Civ5%29](Wat).
Strategy.
The Public School is a very useful Industrial-era building. Through a number of effects, it greatly increases a [City%20%28Civ5%29](city's) output. Its main effect is to provide additional based on the , much like the effect of the [Library%20%28Civ5%29](Library). Altogether combined with the base rate, this is a total of 2 for each . It also provides a wide variety of small bonuses. The slot provides [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Scientist) potential, and adds to the token yield of the building itself.
There are minor bonuses which can be added through [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies), such as effectively reduced maintenance with [Sovereignty%20%28Civ5%29](Sovereignty) (in ' and ') or after adopting all the policies in the [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism) tree (in [vanilla](vanilla) "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)"). It also provides 1 with either [Academy%20of%20Sciences%20%28Civ5%29](Academy of Sciences) or [Humanism%20%28Civ5%29](Humanism).
All told, the Public School is a strong scientific building. This is especially so for large, [Tradition%20%28Civ5%29](Tradition)-focused cities and empires, where naturally the ratio of and maintenance to the output is highest. With Rationalism, this building becomes even easier to support and take advantage of. With the right policies, it can easily output as much as 20 in one city before percentage boosts. Outside their , [Liberty%20%28Civ5%29](Liberty)-focused empires may not get as much use out of these buildings until they complete the Rationalism tree, but will likely want a few heading into the later [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras). An existing Public School is required for the later [Research%20Lab%20%28Civ5%29](Research Lab).