# Pyramids (CTP2)

The Pyramids are a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". They are meant for the [Egyptian%20%28CTP2%29](Egyptians) and cost 2160 production points to build.
Gameplay.
The Pyramids stand as a testament to the devotion of a people to their leader. Built with eternity in mind, the Pyramids attract tourists to the region in which they are built. This steady influx of visitors brings a bonus to the coffers of the host empire.
Great Library entry.
Built over a period of 2,700 years, from the beginning of the Old Kingdom to the end of the Ptolemaic Period in Egypt, pyramids were the largest, most elaborate funerary edifices in history. Built as tombs to honor Egyptian royalty, they were often part of a vast architectural complex that included a mortuary temple and a causeway leading down to a pavilion that was probably connected to the Nile by canal.
Although about 80 royal pyramids have been found in Egypt, the most famous of all pyramids are the three 4th-dynasty (c. 2575-c. 2465 BC) pyramids erected on a rocky plateau on the west bank of the Nile River near Al-Jizah (Giza), northern Egypt. Of the three, the northernmost, oldest and largest was built for the king Khufu (also known by the Greek name Cheops), the second king of the 4th dynasty. Known as the Great Pyramid, it is probably the single largest structure ever built on the planet. The length of each side averages 755 feet at its base and it originally stood more than 480 feet high. Its sides are all correctly oriented to the four cardinal points of the compass. The other two pyramids, named for Khafre and Menkaure (in Greek, Chephren and Mykerinus, respectively), the fourth and fifth of the eight kings of the 4th dynasty were smaller.
The Great Pyramid's core was made of yellowish limestone blocks, the outer casing and the inner passages were of finer light-colored limestone, and the interior burial chamber was built of huge blocks of granite. Approximately 2.3 million blocks of stone were cut, transported, and assembled to create the 5,750,000-ton masterpiece of technical skill and engineering ability. The internal walls as well as those few outer-casing stones that still remained in place showed finer joints than any other masonry constructed in ancient Egypt.