# Queen's Bibliotheque (Civ6)

The Queen's Bibliotheque is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Swedish%20%28Civ6%29](Swedish) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) (when led by [Kristina%20%28Civ6%29](Kristina)) in "". It is built in the [Government%20Plaza%20%28Civ6%29](Government Plaza) [Districts%20%28Civ6%29](district) and requires a Tier 2 [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government) ([Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic), [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy), or [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy)) and a Tier 1 government building ([Ancestral%20Hall%20%28Civ6%29](Ancestral Hall), [Audience%20Chamber%20%28Civ6%29](Audience Chamber), or [Warlord%27s%20Throne%20%28Civ6%29](Warlord's Throne)).
Strategy.
When playing as Kristina, [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Work) slots become even more valuable, and the Queen's Bibliotheque plays to this strength better than any of the other buildings or [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders) in the game. Not only can you automatically theme this building once it is filled, it contains a whopping six slots, the most in the game. Your goal is to earn a , a , and a as fast as possible to fill this building first, as it will become your main and hub for the entire game. It unlocks a Legacy card. Generally speaking, pick [Monarchy%20%28Civ6%29](Monarchy) if you are playing a normal cultural/diplomatic game, or [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy) if you are playing a Relic game.
It doesn't come without its downside, however. If you want to prioritize building this, you will have to give up the ever so wonderful [Intelligence%20Agency%20%28Civ6%29](Intelligence Agency), making Sweden's espionage a bit weaker, but the sacrifice is definitely worth it. Great Works placed inside the Queen's Bibliotheque are not vulnerable to espionage missions, so they can never be stolen. Combined with the automatic theming, the and bonus is equal to that of 12 Great Works, or 4 full non-themed Museums of other civilizations. The main challenge in using this building is to be able to earn a [Great%20Musician%20%28Civ6%29](Great Musician) as quickly as possible to fill in the 2 Great Work of Music slots, but once this is done, Pingala can turn it into the central hub of the entire world, before any other cultural civilizations.