# Railroad (Civ6)

Railroads are a special type of [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in "". They are the ultimate "[Roads%20%28Civ6%29](road)" in the game - iron tracks on which fast trains move with speed impossible for even the most modern road network. Railroads accelerate the of [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) on land, allowing them to cross rough [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) and features such as [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) and [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers) easily. All units can move between [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) with railroads at the cost of only 0.25 , and s passing through railroads receive a bonus of 0.375 per tile with a railroad.
Unlike roads, however, railroads are not laid automatically by [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Traders) - rather, they must be laid manually by [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineers). Placing a railroad on a tile doesn't consume a build charge, but it does consume 1 and 1 .
Strategy.
Upgrading to railroads should be your ultimate infrastructural goal come the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era). It takes just a single [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineer) to accomplish this (although it will be a rather slow process with only one), and all you need is a steady supply of and . And then your land units will move through land with incredible speed, you will be able to react almost instantly to threats on opposite sides of your empire, "and" your trading will get a boost!
The only downside is that you'll have to use , which will worsen your CO2 footprint. However, you do not actually need to upgrade every single tile of road to a railroad - just the strategic ways along which you cross your landmass. This way, you'll achieve the desired effect without spending an excessive amount of time and [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources).
Additionally, it is wise to have railroads lead through or right next to [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments), which exercise [Zone%20of%20control%20%28Civ6%29](zone of control), so that enemies' [Military%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](military units) and [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](rebels) recruited by their [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies) cannot make use of the increased mobility.
Players receive +2 [Historic%20Moments%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) for connecting two of their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) with railroads (or +3 if they are the first to do so).
Railroads, like roads, cannot be removed by a [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builder) or a Military Engineer.