# Railroad (improvement) (Civ5)

Game Info.
Advanced transport infrastructure. Requires [Railroad%20%28technology%29%20%28Civ5%29](Railroad) technology. Replaces the [Road%20%28Civ5%29](road) network.
Strategy.
In "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", the railroads work a little differently than they do in other games of the franchise. They are still constructed by [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers) and allow units to move larger distances within a turn by negating the movement costs of terrain. However, they now have an upkeep cost: railroads cost 2 per tile per turn. Railroads also provide a 25% boost to in cities they connect to the , which effectively makes the capital ineligible for that boost.
The railroad's bonus is extended to any cities with a [Harbor%20%28Civ5%29](Harbor) connection, even if a railroad doesn't reach that city, as long as the itself has either a Harbor or a railroad connecting it to a city with a Harbor. This is especially useful on Archipelago maps, where players often have most of their cities connected by water rather than land, and the itself is a [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) city. These cities will then get the 25% bonus automatically on the turn after [Railroad%20%28technology%29%20%28Civ5%29](Railroad) is researched, without the player having to actually construct any railroads, and saving him or her the maintenance cost.
Note that if you build a railroad in another player's territory, that player must pay the maintenance cost for the railroad. You can take advantage of this by signing an open borders treaty with an opponent, then sending Workers into his or her lands and building railroads on as many tiles as possible. This can severely disrupt the other player's economy and does not cause diplomatic incidents with AI players, who may even propose to extend the open borders treaty.