# Rapid Deployment (Civ6)

Rapid Deployment is an [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by building an [Aerodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Aerodrome) or an [Airstrip%20%28Civ6%29](Airstrip) on a foreign [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent).
In the ' expansion, the [Amundsen-Scott%20Research%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Amundsen-Scott Research Station) is unlocked with Rapid Deployment. It was unlocked with [Cold%20War%20%28Civ6%29](Cold War) in the ' expansion.
Strategy.
The concept of Rapid Deployment is a cornerstone of contemporary military defense and strike capabilities. The possibility to instantly move land [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) between any two [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), even if they're on different continents, allows for unparalleled strategic options, both in defense and offense. Keep a task force close to strategically placed Aerodromes with [Airport%20%28Civ6%29](Airports) and you will be ready to react instantly to any unpleasant surprises from your enemies (as long as their targets also have Aerodromes with Airports, of course).
Rapid Deployment allows all land units to be transported between any two Aerodromes that both contain an Airport. Transportation is possible from all [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) adjacent to the Aerodrome and/or [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) of the origin city, to all tiles adjacent to the destination city's Aerodrome.
Another option is to build a strategically located outpost city, then equip it with an Airport and it will turn into a base for an invasion. You will be able to move an army there instantly, without giving time to your enemies to prepare for defense.