# Recycling Plant (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The Recycling Plant combats the effects of consumer waste by making the material found in many consumer goods reusable. Cheap, commonplace, modern age materials such as paper, aluminum and plastics, are reprocessed after initial use in order to provide raw materials. The result is a reduction in pollution from .
Great Library entry.
Although waste had always been a problem in human societies, the population growth of the 20th century compounded this problem enormously. To meet this challenge, governments and private organizations began programs to reduce the flow of waste products into landfills and incinerators by paying citizens a nominal amount of money to recycle products such as glass, plastic, or aluminum. Cities and municipalities opened recycling centers to facilitate collection, the product of which went to recycling plants. A culture of reusability pervaded many industries, and recyclable materials eventually included iron and steel scrap, aluminum, glass, paper, wood and plastics. 
Contrary to prevailing belief at the time, recycling took hold in modern, affluent societies not because it was an environmentally responsible thing to do, but because it was economically advantageous for large-scale manufacturing operations. The cost of recycling certain materials was less than the cost of processing new raw materials. Nevertheless, widespread recycling efforts diminished human impact on the ecology in three distinct ways: it reduced manufacturers' needs for finite natural resources, such as petroleum, trees, mineral ores, and coal, it helped reduce the volume of solid waste in landfills, which had become increasingly expensive, and it reduced the pollution of air, water and land resulting from waste disposal.