# Redcoat (Civ6)

The Redcoat is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee unit) of the [English%20%28Civ6%29](English) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) (when led by [Victoria%20%28Civ6%29](Victoria (Age of Empire))) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Line%20Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Line Infantry).
In the "" expansion, the Redcoat requires 10 to train.
Strategy.
The Redcoat is one of the strongest melee units all the way to the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era), especially when fighting on a foreign continent. There, it is able to stand its ground even against [Tank%20%28Civ6%29](Tanks) and [Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Infantry)!
The best thing about the Redcoat is that it appears for free when founding [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) on other continents (after [Military%20Science%20%28Civ6%29](Military Science) is researched, of course). This means additional defense for these cities right from the start, not to mention the free unit. And, as with all civilization-specific or (as in this case) leader-specific units, the Redcoat requires no strategic resources in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and "", which is a great boon during a game in which the player has been unable to secure for [Musketman%20%28Civ6%29](Musketmen) and has outdated melee units as a result - although you won't be able to upgrade these units to Redcoats without . In "Gathering Storm", you will still need for Redcoats, but only half as much as you would for regular [Line%20Infantry%20%28Civ6%29](Line Infantry). More importantly, you only get free melee units from founding a new city on a continent you previously have not touched, so while Redcoats will still be valuable, they will not be as numerous unless you leverage your advantages.
A great tactic for these troops in vanilla and "Rise and Fall" is to mass them until you're ready to launch an offensive. Since you receive a Redcoat every time you found a city outside your home continent, you can be constantly gaining more and more military strength that you can turn against your opponents. Bear in mind, however, that Redcoats are quite expensive to maintain, so if you conquer too many cities you won't be able to afford the Redcoats and may go bankrupt. If you plan on making a Redcoat army, you must make sure your economy can handle it. (In "Gathering Storm", a Redcoat push doesn't snowball in either power or cost in the same way.)
Should you face a Redcoat invasion, try to take them out before they can hit your shores. If they land, then try to out-range them with [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannons)!