# Reformation (Civ5)

Reformation is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the [Piety%20%28Civ5%29](Piety) tree and requires . In "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" it requires [Religious%20Tolerance%20%28Civ5%29](Religious Tolerance).
In a mature religious society, it becomes inevitable that a drive to change manifests itself at some point. As religious practices stagnate and become too gaudy and empty of spirit, people start clamoring for a reform. And this Reformation brings about new life in their main Religion - a new Belief which is so strong that may potentially alter the course of your empire!
Strategy.
The uber-Policy of the Piety tree, Reformation lets you choose the most powerful Belief of your religion. The possible choices are all aimed either at providing a really powerful all-around bonus, or one targeted at a specific victory path. However, just as with other Beliefs, they are available on a first-come, first-served basis, so you should aim at rushing this Policy (so, open up the Tree, then adopt [Organized%20Religion%20%28Civ5%29](Organized Religion) and [Religious%20Tolerance%20%28Civ5%29](Religious Tolerance)). 
Note that the extra Belief can only be adopted after you found a religion! If you have already founded one (even if it's not enhanced), you may choose the Belief already. If not, you will have to wait until you manage to found a religion. This delay could sometimes cost you the very choice you intend to pick! So, do all in your power to found a religion before, or immediately after you adopt Reformation. 
The specific choice will depend on many factors. Look to the [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](Victory) strategy articles for more guidelines of how to choose. 