# Reinforced Barricade (Civ6)

The Reinforced Barricade is a special [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is exclusive to the [Zombie%20Defense%20%28Civ6%29](Zombie Defense) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Portugal%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal Pack). It can be built by a [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineer) on any [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) inside your own or neutral [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory).
Strategy.
The Reinforced Barricade is one of the two late-game defenses used in the Zombie Defense game mode. In contrast with the [Modernized%20Trap%20%28Civ6%29](Modernized Trap), which does significant damage in a single tile and slows down [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units), the Reinforced Barricade deals moderate damage on one tile and slows down units.
Unlike the [Barricade%20%28Civ6%29](Barricade) on which it improves, the Reinforced Barricade is built by a Military Engineer, making it generally more expensive to create. Its damage output is still fairly low, but is not dependent on the Combat Strength of the enemy unit. This makes this weapon much more useful against enemies with very high strength, such as [Zombie%20%28Civ6%29](Zombies) with a high Mutation Strength Modifier. Three Reinforced Barricades guarding the same tile can remove almost half of a unit's HP in a single turn. Unfortunately, by the time this is available, there will be few tiles left to place this. It can be useful in large [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) that contain territory outside of the workable zone, but even then this places it far from the tiles that need protecting the most.