# Religion (Civ6)

Religion is a returning feature in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", but its role has been greatly expanded both in scope and in importance, becoming the focus of a new [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory) condition. A Religion is a system of spiritual Beliefs (manifested by game bonuses), founded by a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet), and spread among the population of cities around the world. Religion is primarily based around , which you can gain through various means including [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings), [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders) and others.
Pantheon.
As in "", Pantheons are the first signs of spiritual development in a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization), and a stepping stone towards a Religion. Pantheons worship a number of minor gods, usually related to nature and natural phenomena, and provide minor bonuses, usually based on [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain). In a major departure from the previous game, Pantheons are now considered separate from Religions, and a civilization's Pantheon will not get overwritten by foreign Religions converting your [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities).
You need to establish a Pantheon, by acquiring 25 , as a first step towards founding a full Religion. For more detailed information, as well as list of Pantheon Beliefs, visit the main article.
Founding a Religion.
How to found a Religion.
As in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", in order to Found a Religion first you need to attract a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet). Once he is obtained, a civilization which has already adopted a Pantheon may use him to found a Religion in any [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) district or the [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge) wonder, if you've built it. The city to which these belong will then become the Holy City for the new Religion, and all cities with a Holy Site converted to it (that means that half of its Citizens +1 will immediately stop being atheists and adopt the new Religion). Also note that establishing a Religion in a city already converted to a different Religion will overwrite the other Religion! After all, the words of a real Prophet will always outshine those of a mere earthly Missionary or Apostle.
Note that Great Prophets are not obtained through simple accumulation of , as it was in "Civilization V: Gods &amp; Kings". You will need a source of points, such as a Holy Site. The number of Religions possible is still limited (and will be smaller than the number of players in the game on anything except a Duel [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map)), so you will need to race the others if you want your own Religion. Chances can be improved by rushing a Shrine and enacting [Holy%20Site%20Prayers%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site Prayers) in your [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site), to improve the number of points per turn.
If you attract a Great Prophet "before" establishing a Pantheon, you'll still need to found a Pantheon before you can use your Great Prophet to found a Religion. This can occur if you manage to build the Stonehenge wonder before accumulating enough to adopt a Pantheon, or if you're lucky enough to earn enough points without a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site), and before the Religion limit is reached. This can happen on occasion, since the resource for obtaining a Pantheon is , while the one for obtaining a Great Prophet is points. These may be obtained by sources other than a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site): [Revelation%20%28Civ6%29](Revelation) and the Exodus of the Evangelists Golden Age effect in "Rise and Fall".
Note also that accumulation of points does not stop once a player acquires a [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet). However, it is not possible to attract another one, even if the necessary number of points is acquired. The unused points will be converted into with a 1:1 exchange rate.
Players must choose a symbol for their new Religion. The symbols of the main historical Religions come with their respective real names, which cannot be changed. There are also custom symbols which come without a name, and a custom name must be entered.
Finally, you have the opportunity to choose two Beliefs for your new Religion.
Maximum number.
The total number of Religions that can be founded is determined by map size, by half the default number of players plus one:
If [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia) is in the game, one Great Prophet is reserved for the nation even if it gets eliminated before founding a religion.
Adding extra players via Advanced Setup will not increase the maximum number of Religions. Once the limit is reached, no further Great Prophets may be recruited, and the [Revelation%20%28Civ6%29](Revelation) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) will become obsolete.
 cannot be captured in "Civilization VI", so the first players to attract Great Prophets will be the ones who get to found Religions - you won't be able to capture another player's Great Prophet and use it to found a Religion of your own.
In [single%20player](single player) games, [Gilgamesh%20%28Civ6%29](Gilgamesh), [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo), [Pericles%20%28Civ6%29](Pericles), [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin Shi Huang), [Trajan%20%28Civ6%29](Trajan), [Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29](Teddy Roosevelt), [Victoria%20%28Civ6%29](Victoria), [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander), and [John%20Curtin%20%28Civ6%29](John Curtin) specifically ignore Religion. They will only go for it if they get a major advantage towards it (e.g. starting next to a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder)). In addition, [Gandhi%20%28Civ6%29](Gandhi), [Philip%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Philip II), [Saladin%20%28Civ6%29](Saladin), and [Jadwiga%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga) will specifically aim for an early Religion. [Peter%20%28Civ6%29](Peter) is also prone to acquiring an early religion as the [Lavra%20%28Civ6%29](Lavra) is his unique district.
Mechanics.
Religion manifests through the cities in the world which have adopted it. Although not every single bonus conferred by religious Beliefs depends on sheer numbers, most of them are typically compounded by having as many cities in the world as possible following that Religion, and inside each city - as many Citizen followers as possible. An objective is therefore to spread your Religion far and wide. This is also the path towards the Religious Victory!
City Majority Religion.
In each city's Details panel there is a Religion tab, where you can check how many of the city's Citizens are religious; that is, they have converted to a particular Religion via any of the means used to spread it. Once more than 50% of the Citizens convert to a particular Religion, it becomes the city's Majority Religion and the relevant bonuses kick in. If no Religion is predominant then there will simply be no Majority Religion.
Each city maintains a tally of the cumulative pressure exerted on it by each Religion throughout the game, either through active effects such as religious unit intervention or passive pressure from nearby cities and/or s. Each city also maintains an atheist/pantheon pressure.
 Citizens of Specific Religion (or Atheists) = Population * Specific Pressure / [ Sum of all Religious and Atheist Pressures]
The actual number of citizens is rounded to the nearest integer.
When a city grows, +50 religious pressure is added to its majority Religion; if there is no majority Religion then +50 is added to the atheist/pantheon pressure. Since atheist/pantheon pressure is never eliminated and has no external influence it is always a multiple of 50. When a city shrinks due to starvation, production of a [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settler), or having been captured, all pressures remain constant. Cities that repeatedly grow and shrink due to a food imbalance can accumulate a huge amount of pressure that makes them hard to convert (typical of City states in snow terrain), and when these cities don't follow a state religion the game will not reveal how much pantheon pressure they have.
The Majority Religion of each city may change constantly: the city will almost certainly start as an atheist city (that is, no Religion will have any Followers there), then it will acquire a Majority Religion, then it might convert to another Religion, go back to the first one, become atheist again...unlike military conquest, these changes won't have any lasting effect on either the city or its population, besides possibly the Tier 3 Religious building which may get constructed at some point in its [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) and remain there once and for all, regardless of further conversions. Note, however, that if the city founder has adopted a [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](Pantheon), it will hold fast in this city ever since its foundation, regardless of what Majority Religions may convert the city later.
Conversion by Religious Pressure.
Each Religion spreads its influence automatically thanks to the natural contacts between people living in nearby cities and sharing their spiritual views. This effect is known as "religious pressure."
Religious pressure values for each city are calculated cumulatively for all other cities with Majority Religions within 10 tiles. The following pressures are exerted by those neighboring cities in the following way:
Further steady religious pressure is exercised by each ending in the city (if its city of origin has a Majority Religion, of course). 0.5 pressure is applied per turn by each such route, regardless of how far the origin city is.
Pressure per turn is quite a weak effect in "Civilization VI" and considered passive. The impact of pressure is more pronounced in the early stages of the game where total pressure values are small and subsequently small changes can introduce Religions to your civilization's or other's cities quite easily.
Conversion with Religious units.
For more widespread conversion and in pursuit of Religious Victory a more active approach to pressure is required. Enter the agents of Religion: [Missionary%20%28Civ6%29](Missionaries) and [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostles), each of which can engage in proselytizing trips to foreign (or domestic) cities. This action, called 'Spread Religion', has limited charges (three by default without any special effects or promotions), and after using the last charge the unit disappears. You can easily tell how many charges they have left based on how many characters are visible on the unit's tile. The strength of the spread is equal to the current Religious Strength of the unit times 2. Note that this strength diminishes if the unit is injured, so you shouldn't attempt to Spread Religion with units which have been badly damaged in Theological Combat - you will simply waste their potential.
Missionary and Apostle spreads also have the effect of eliminating other religious pressure in a city by 10% and 25% respectively. This is unaffected by damage and can prove to be more effective than the respective increase of the pressure of their own Religion by a specific amount. This does not affect atheist citizens, however, and so converting a city with a large atheist population can, perhaps unintuitively, require considerably more effort.
Note that a city of a given Religion will only purchase religious units of that Religion! So, if your cities with [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) have been attacked and converted to other Religions, be careful not to purchase your units and discover they are of the wrong Religion!
Conversion with Non-Religious units.
Another unit available to aid in converting the masses includes the [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Band) with the [Religious%20Rock%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Rock) promotion, which converts the majority Religion of that city to the Religion founded by the player. A [Warrior%20Monk%20%28Civ6%29](Warrior Monk) with the [Disciples%20%28Civ6%29](Disciples) promotion applies religious pressure to nearby cities every time it kills a non-[Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) unit.
Some civilizations have a perk to aid in converting other players. These include:
Theological combat.
The final way to spread a Religion is when the agents of two different Religions clash in a contest of faith, called theological combat. The winner will receive extra religious pressure in nearby cities, while the loser will lose such pressure.
Loyalty.
With "Rise and Fall", Religion now affects city [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty). A city you own following your Religion will have an extra +3 Loyalty, while a city you own that does not follow your Religion will lose -3 Loyalty.
Religious Victory.
In "Civilization VI", it is possible to win the game by becoming the most dominant Religion in the world. This is done by having at least 50% of every extant civilization's cities follow your Religion, i.e. the Religion you've founded. To clarify, you need to reach 50% of each civilization's cities, and each civilization that you do this with counts as one point towards the victory, so if you are playing a game with only four civilizations and one of them only has two cities, if you convert one of those cities, then you would be 1/3 of the way to achieving this victory, even if the other civilizations have several more cities.
[City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-states) do not need to be converted for a religious victory.
Strategy.
Religion is a game mechanic that you might choose to ignore without necessarily suffering. The one exception being a particularly strong religious opponent on the path to Religious Victory without it being particularly apparent. On the other hand, the bonuses obtained throughout the game for investing early in Holy Sites and points may reap long term rewards, as well as presenting an opportunity for your own Religious Victory.
Defending Against Religious Victory.
If an opponent is particularly strong religiously there are primarily three forms of religious defense against them:
Seeking Religious Victory.
An ideal religious campaign depends heavily on the layout of cities and Religions in those cities. Spending faith to build units to defend contested borders of cities is akin to attrition and should be avoided. If you also plan to conquer nearby cities of foreign Religions then converting them ahead of time is wasteful when they can be quickly converted afterwards with a simple Inquisitor's spread. The list below provides some common play strategies: 