# Republic (CTP2)

Republic is a form of [Government%20%28CTP2%29](government) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
The republic, another early form of government, provides stronger growth potential, greater production, and more emphasis on research than a monarchy. Its economy and military, on the other hand, are slightly weaker.
Gameplay.
Another of the early forms of , the Republic is less conducive to border expansion than it is to and . The is not strong, nor is the .
Great Library entry.
The essential concept of the republic form of government was that sovereignty resided in the people, who delegated their power to elected representatives and officials. Historically, this concept was distorted and corrupted, making conventional definition of the term "republic" difficult. Throughout history, republics took the form of democracies (most notable, the United States) and monarchies, but the term was applied and used by dictatorships, one-party states as well. The roots of this confusion lie in the origins of the republic.
The concept of the republic (from the Latin res publica, literally "public thing") originated with the two most exceptional thinkers of ancient Greece, Plato and Aristotle. Plato, in his famous work "Republic," presented the ideal state, in the form of the Greek polis ("city-state"), which was based on what he regarded as the basic characteristics of the human soul: the appetitive, the spirited and the philosophical. Accordingly, his republic consisted of three groups: a commercial class comprised of those dominated by their appetites; a spirited class of administrators and soldiers responsible for the execution of laws; and the guardians or philosopher-kings, who would act as lawmakers. Because Plato empowered the guardians, a small group, with the responsibility of maintaining harmony, republicanism was traditionally associated with goals or policies established by a carefully selected part of the community who presumably had a special insight into what constituted the common good.
Aristotle's concept of republic prevailed in much of the Western world. He categorized governments based on who ruled: the one, the few, or the many. Within these categories, he distinguished good and perverted forms of government, for instance, monarchy (good) compared to tyranny, and aristocracy (good) compared to oligarchy. His rationale for labeling different governments depended on whether the rulers governed for the good of the state or for their own interests. Aristotle's distinction between democracy, a perverted form of rule by the many, and polity, the good form, was most relevant to the Western concept of republic. He maintained that democracies were predisposed to turbulence and instability, because the poor, assumed to be the majority in a democracy, would demand an economic and social equality that stifled individual initiative and enterprise. Polity, by contrast, would be rule "by the many" without chaos, as its middle class would capably adjudicate conflicts between the rich and the poor.