# Resource (Civ6)

Resources are special commodities found in limited quantities on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). As in all "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games, they are essential to your empire's development and are an important reason to seize and hold [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory). Different resources may be found virtually anywhere except [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Ocean) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles). There is a limit of 1 resource per tile.
## Overview

Accessing resources.
To gain access to and make use of a resource, you will first need to expand your territory onto its tile. Then, to make use of its tile yields, you have to assign a Citizen from a nearby [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) work it. To gain access to strategic and luxury resources' special functions, a Builder must spend one charge to improve them with the appropriate [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement). Accessing resources provides many benefits, including increased tile yields (, , etc.), the ability to produce new military units, and extra for your [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization).
Resource spawning.
All resources are placed at the very start of the game, when the map is first generated - unlike in "", resources cannot be created by player actions. The only exception to this rule comes when the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) is activated: [Maui%20%28Civ6%29](Maui) has the ability to create bonus and luxury resources when standing on a neutral tile, which means that the player controlling him can literally litter the area around his or her starting cities with resources! The player, however, has no control over what resource is created - it may be either bonus or luxury, but it will always be one that can appear on the tile on which Maui stands (for example, will never appear on flat land).
Most strategic resources are not visible in the beginning of the game, but they are nevertheless there. s and s are also invisible in the beginning; however, it is unclear if they are actually placed at map creation, or the game uses a system similar to "Civilization V" where significant playing events (a battle, the destruction of a [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian Outpost), etc.) later become s. s may appear underneath [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts); they won't, however, appear in a tile with any other resource.
Some resources spawn only on land tiles, some spawn on sea tiles, and a couple of them (i.e., and ) can spawn both on land and sea tiles. Each resource has a specific spawn probability. For land resources the most frequent are , , and , while for sea resources the most frequent are and .
Each resource has a specific type of [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) or terrain feature that it is tied to, and it will not appear on any others. Some resources can be found on more than one type. There are certain terrains and features that may never hold a resource: [Ocean%20%28Civ6%29](Oceans) (being too deep for effective exploration), [Ice%20%28Civ6%29](Ice) (being too cold and unstable), [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) (being too tall), and [Oasis%20%28Civ6%29](Oases) (being in themselves valuable). [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers) also can't hold resources, because they don't actually occupy tiles. [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Natural wonders) are also too valuable in themselves to hold any additional resources. If you're familiar with the prevalent resources around your starting terrain, you will be able to guess what you will find nearby even without exploring.
Types of resources.
There are a total of 4 different types of resources: Artifacts, Bonus Resources, Luxury Resources, and Strategic Resources.
Artifacts.
[Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29%23Artifacts](Artifact) spots are special "resources" on the map, since they do not have any extra yields and they cannot be developed. They can, however, be excavated by an [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologist) to yield an [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29%23Artifacts](Artifact), which can then be displayed if there is an appropriate slot in your empire. There are two types of artifact spots: s and s.
A city may be founded on top of an , but doing so will destroy the resource. Districts and wonders cannot be built on tiles with Artifacts.
Bonus.
Bonus resources are the most frequently found type of resource, and they are the most versatile in a strategic sense. They provide bonus , , or to the tile's yield, benefiting a nearby city, and they can be improved further for even greater benefits. But that's not all:
Before Harvesting or Removing resources, it's important to remember that some bonus resources may be required for certain [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders). For example, [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge) must be built next to .
Finally, in "", Bonus resources may be destroyed outright by the eruption of a nearby [Volcano%20%28Civ6%29](Volcano). So, when you see such a resource in the blast radius, be sure to make use of it right away, before it gets destroyed. If its yields are useful to your civ in the long term, improve it; otherwise feel free to Harvest it. 
Luxury.
Luxury resources are commodities highly prized by Citizens, and their availability helps increase Citizen happiness by granting . Most Luxury Resources are provided by the land, and you can access them by improving a tile that contains the resource or even founding a city on it. Some, however, are exclusive products of specific [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) and may only be obtained via achieving [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerainty) with them. Yet others are the lifework of [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchants), who you will need to attract to your civilization in order to access the resource.
You cannot place Districts or Wonders on tiles with Luxury Resources. Most luxury resources provide +1 for the 4 cities that need it the most, though a few special ones will provide for up to 6 cities. Duplicates of the same luxury resource "will not" supply additional cities; however, these extra resources may always be traded to other civilizations. Luxury resource tiles provide more varied tile yield bonuses than Bonus and Strategic resources. These include , , , and , which aren't normally found on any terrain making these resources quite valuable.
The number of different water luxury resources is determined by the map size:
Note that in the Heroes &amp; Legends game mode, [Anansi%20%28Civ6%29](Anansi) is able to "consume" Bonus and Luxury resources, removing them from the map altogether!
Strategic.
Strategic resources are those that are important from a military standpoint. They also provide some bonuses to tile yields, but more importantly, when the relevant tile improvement is built on them, they provide access to vital materials which allow you to build important military units (e.g., are needed to produce [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen) and is needed to produce [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen)). All strategic resources, provided you start in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), are hidden at the beginning of the game - they do not appear on the map until you develop technologies to reveal each resource. can be seen right from the start in the base game and ', but in ' they are also hidden at the start and revealed with [Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ6%29](Animal Husbandry).
You can place districts, wonders, and even cities on tiles which contain unrevealed strategic resources - in this case, upon discovering the relevant technology, you will gain use of the resource as if it were already improved. However, if there is a tile improvement on top of a strategic resource that doesn't match it (e.g., you have a [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farm) on a resource), you will need to remove it and build the right improvement to access the resource.
Strategic resources cannot be harvested. Districts and wonders cannot be built on tiles with revealed strategic resources.
Vanilla "Civilization VI" and "Rise and Fall".
In order to produce some units like [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights) or [Tank%20%28Civ6%29](Tanks), you need access to improved tiles with a Strategic resource or you need to obtain it by trading with other civilizations. Two counts of a resource enable you to build a unit in each city, but only 1 count enables you to build a land unit in a military district and a naval unit in a port district. For example, if you only have 1 improved tile with across your empire, all land units that require it may only be produced in cities that have an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) district, but if you have two improved tiles with across your empire, you can produce those units even without the district, and in whatever city you want, provided it has the applicable production capabilities. This also means that having 3 improved tiles of the same strategic resource is of no further use to your civilization and is a good trading commodity for deals with other leaders.
"Gathering Storm".
"Gathering Storm" alters the way Strategic resources are handled; each source produces a certain number of the resource "per turn", which is then added to your stockpile. Thus, if you have 2 sources of (each producing 2 per turn), you will be gaining 4 of the resource per turn, until you reach your stockpile limit. The maximum stockpile amount is initially 50 for each resource but constructing Encampment buildings in your empire ([Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks), [Armory%20%28Civ6%29](Armory), etc.) will increase your maximum stockpile by 10 per building for all resources. Everything using the resource (units, buildings, projects, etc.) will draw from this stockpile.
For example, you will need to gather and spend 20 for each Swordsman you want to train or purchase. Or, if you want to turn all your [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors) into [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsmen), but you have only stockpiled 30 , you will be able to convert only 1, and wait to obtain more Iron for the rest. This means that or are no longer the only things determining how quickly you can create units: how much of a resource you have stockpiled and how many sources you have are also important.
Overall, Strategic resources are used for three distinct purposes: unit production, as fuel for unit upkeep, and for production for your cities. The second and third only enter into play from the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) on.
Note that the (un)availability of Strategic resources will also affect the units "after" you produce them. For example, if you had acquired to produce Swordsmen, but have no continuous access to Iron Mines, those Swordsmen won't be able to Heal. For later units, lack of their respective Strategic resource will also mean a Combat Strength penalty during combat (which is proportional to the amount you're short).
Of course, Strategic resources may still be traded with other players. Arguably, the new system makes trading them even more important than before. Note, however, that unlike trading, you can only trade lump quantities of Consumable resources, as opposed to trading a set number per turn.