# Resources (Civ5)

Basics.
Resources are special commodities found in limited quantities on the map. When a resource is "worked" (or accessed), it provides a bonus for your empire; this is accomplished either through constructing a specific [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvement) with a [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Worker) (on land) or expending a [Work%20Boat%20%28Civ5%29](Work Boat) (for sea tiles). Bonuses vary from increased yield (, , etc.) to a number of units of , , or some other strategic or luxury resources necessary for producing specific [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ5](units) and [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20Civ5](buildings), and for providing more to your citizens.
Resources are extremely important in the game, and the main reason for expansion and territorial wars. Plan your early expansion carefully to take control of as many resources as you can! 
"[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" contains three kinds of resources: bonus resources, strategic resources and luxury resources. This article explains their differences and lists the resources of each category.
Of the three types of resources, bonus resources are the most common, providing only tile yield benefits. Strategic and luxury resources' effects, on the other hand, are much more far-reaching, and are sufficiently precious to be traded across empires (besides having tile yield benefits). For this purpose, all of them are counted in units across your empire (regardless of their source location). To gain strategic access to, and add the count of a particular strategic or luxury resource to your trade network, you need not only to have it in your territory, but also to construct a particular improvement on it. You don't need to work its tile with a to have access to its strategic and trading benefits! You do, however, need to work it to access its tile benefits.
Finally, the utilization of strategic resources depends highly on technological development. While the use of resources like and is apparent from the dawn of ages, this is not true for the use of , for example. Because of this, Strategic resources don't even appear on the map before you research the technology necessary to make use of them! These technologies are widely spread across the eras, starting in the Ancient Era with [Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ5%29](Animal Husbandry) (which reveals ), and ending in the Atomic Era with [Atomic%20Theory%20%28Civ5%29](Atomic Theory) (which reveals ). Likewise, early strategic resources such as or may become less useful towards the end of the game. These changes and the discovery of more and more useful resources makes for a dynamic game and may force you to expand, conquer, or negotiate in locations you never thought would be useful before.
Bonus Resources.
These resources are the most widespread resources on the map. They aren't special in any strategic sense, and are thus not shared across your empire and neither can they be traded. However, they provide substantial additional output for the tile they are on when worked, especially when improved. Since their benefit lies only in their tile output bonus, it only makes sense to use a bonus resource by having a city sufficiently close to it (within three tiles), which can then work its tile. Also, several special buildings can be constructed in the controlling city to further increase bonus resources yields.
These are the buildings which increase bonus resources' output:
Strategic Resources.
Strategic resources are those that are of economic and military importance for your empire. Certain military units and buildings require a strategic resource before they can be built. For example, a [Horseman%20%28Civ5%29](Horseman) requires 1 resource, while a [Factory%20%28Civ5%29](Factory) requires 1 resource.
If these objects are removed from a civilization's control - whether by losing a unit in battle, gifting it to a City-State, or by any other means - the strategic resource consumed by the object is released for future use. Strategic resources never actually leave play.
If a civilization loses access to some of the strategic resources they are currently using, and find themselves using more than they're producing or trading, then military units depending upon the resource in question will fight with a large combat penalty until the situation is remedied.
Each improved strategic resource tile provides a certain quantity of that resource to the empire that controls it, regardless of whether it is worked by a city or not. This quantity varies
Note that they also provide output bonuses, which are useful only if the tile IS worked. Unused strategic resources may be traded to other empires.
The [Stable%20%28Civ5%29](Stable) building provides +1 additional from each resource.The [Forge%20%28Civ5%29](Forge) building provides +1 additional from each resource.
Luxury Resources.
Luxury resources are fancy goods that everyone values highly, but your wealthier citizens especially relish (and often clamor for). They are the most diverse of all resources, and are used in all sorts of human activities - cooking, weaving, and in many other crafts. Their practical effect is to provide additional : +4 for each luxury resource which your empire has secured at least one source of. Unlike strategic resources, each [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improved) luxury resource tile provides only one unit of the resource. If an empire has secured more than one unit of the same luxury resource, the effect is the same as possessing only one, so you should consider using the surplus to [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29%23Trading](trade) with other empires.
Again, you don't need to work an improved luxury resource tile in order to gain the resource, but you do need to work it (i.e. send a to the tile) to gain its "output bonuses". Unlike other resources, Luxury resources add yield to tiles, which makes them even more important strategically, allowing you to gain directly from terrain (and not having to trade for it). Note that luxury resources may be traded to other empires, if they're produced by "you"; however, in the event that you've gained them via trading or from a City-State ally, you can't trade them away.
†  provides +15% Wonder production for Ancient and Classical Wonders
Some buildings also increase the bonuses of luxury resources:
 Introduced in ".
 Introduced in ".
Strategy.
Settling a city on top of a luxury or strategic resource tile gives the strategic benefits as soon as you have the appropriate technology for improving it. It also gives additional , and it usually provides right to your city tile, meaning that you'll always be using these benefits (since the city tile is always worked).
You won't be able to use the potential benefits of Improvements built on the resource, but you WILL be able to build the bonus city buildings related to the resource and their bonus will apply. For example, with a city settled on a resource, the [Stone%20Works%20%28Civ5%29](Stone Works) building is available (and it is expected that the city tile's yield will increase accordingly after it is constructed). However the city will not gain the additional 1 or 2 (and possible from Stone Circles pantheon belief) associated with a [Quarry%20%28Civ5%29](Quarry).
 City-States allied to you give your empire free units of the resources they have. Note that these units are added to your pool for internal use, but are not available for trade with other civilizations!
Interaction with Great tile improvements.
[Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great People) create incredible tile [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](Improvements), with strong yields. Generally it would not be advantageous to forgo their yield and replace these Improvements with standard Resource Improvements, and as a result, these special improvements will connect any revealed and future strategic resources on them to the trading network as a courtesy. Unlike cities, Great tile improvements do not connect luxury resources!
However, [Mine%20%28Civ5%29](Mines) and [Pasture%20%28Civ5%29](Pasture) resource improvements, the two main Improvements placed on strategic resources, get two further bonuses when adding up yield (on top of the resource's bonus yield and the improvement's own yield). The first is based on the resource they improve and the second is based on later technologies. Great tile improvements do not receive these additional bonus yields, unlike resource improvements.
As an example, consider some resources on [hills%20%28Civ5%29](hills) in the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Modern Era):
Therefore, intentionally placing an Great Tile Improvement on a strategic resource can be a waste of yields. However, there may be situations where it is advantageous to connect the resource with a Great improvement, such as obtaining or to rush units into production, or maximizing yield given a small . Furthermore, resource-dependent yields only appear on later strategic resources such as and that are revealed much later. Generally,
Hence while a good exercise in understanding the process of calculating and understanding tile yields, the distinction between the types of improvements tends to be more academic in nature, and have less practical applications than it may appear to.