# Resource (Civ4)

A resource is a special commodity which typically gives bonus [production%20%28Civ4%29](production) to its tile, and also gives bonuses to all cities which have access to it. A resource on the map is called a tile resource if the context is unclear. A resource that a civilization has access to is just called a "resource"; unfortunately, there is no widely used term to disambiguate this usage from "tile resource." For the purposes of the wiki, we refer to tradeable resources as trade resources.
Seeing Resources.
Tile resources are shown on the main map using their own graphics. You can also turn on resource bubbles to more clearly locate them. Some tile resources will not be revealed on the map until particular technologies are known; for example, [Horse%20%28Civ4%29](Horses) are not revealed until a civilization knows the [Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ4%29](Animal Husbandry) tech.
The trade resources that each particular [City%20%28Civ4%29](City) has access to are shown on the upper right portion of the city screen in iconic form, along with the effect that the resource has in that city. Strategic resources have no direct effect; some of them allow the building of particular military units, while others offer a production bonus to the construction of some buildings or wonders. Luxury and food resources will give one or two points of happiness or health.
Accessing Resources.
There are several means to gain access to a trade resource. These are reviewed in this section.
Via Tile Development.
The fundamental way one gets most trade resources is to "enable" the resource with an appropriate technology, and then to "unlock" a tile resource by building its particular [tile%20improvement%20%28Civ4%29](tile improvement) on it. (Alternatively, one may unlock "any" land-based resource either by building a [Fort%20%28Civ4%29](Fort) on it, or by settling a [City%20%28Civ4%29](City) directly on top of it; however, since they give no improvement bonus to the tile, it is typically preferable to build the proper tile improvement.) The tile improvement which unlocks each particular resource is listed in the tables below. For example, [Wheat%20%28Civ4%29](Wheat) is unlocked by a [Farm%20%28Civ4%29](Farm).
For the most part, the enabling technology is the technology which allows the building of the resource's particular tile improvement. For example, [Gems%20%28Civ4%29](Gems) are enabled by [Mining%20%28Civ4%29](Mining), which is the technology which allows the building of the [Mine%20%28Civ4%29](Mine); prior to the discovery of Mining, a City settled atop Gems will "not" have the Gems' +1 bonus, nor will Gems be made available for trade. The sole exception is [Uranium%20%28Civ4%29](Uranium) which, despite being associated with the [Mine%20%28Civ4%29](Mine) improvement which is allowed with [Mining%20%28Civ4%29](Mining), is only enabled by [Fission%20%28Civ4%29](Fission).
In summary, to gain access to the trade resource in a city, all of the following conditions must hold:
Unless directly settled upon by a [City%20%28Civ4%29](City), to get trade access to a tile resource, its tile must be connected by [Roads%20and%20railroads%20%28Civ4%29](road) or [River%20%28Civ4%29](river) to a nearby city. When you build a road to a resource tile which you've improved, this is called hooking up that resource. To allow trade with an encountered foreign civilization, the network of roads and rivers must connect all of: 1. the tile resource, 2. your [Capital%20%28Civ4%29](Capital) city, and 3. the foreign civilization's Capital city.
Via Wonders.
There are three late-game trade resources - [Hit%20Movies%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Movies) (), [Hit%20Singles%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Singles) (), and [Hit%20Musicals%20%28Civ4%29](Hit Musicals) () - which are created via building particular wonders. When a civilization owns such a wonder, it obtains a certain number of the associated hits into its trade network. (The particular number of resources varies with the map size—more resources for larger maps.) Hits cause happiness in any civ and may be traded just as any other trade resource.
Via Trade.
Trade resources can also be gained by trading between civilizations. With trade access, one civ can make a deal with another to supply a trade resource, in return getting [Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28Civ4%29](gold) or some other trade resource.
Via a Corporation.
There are two trade resources, [Oil%20%28Civ4%29](Oil) and [Aluminum%20%28Civ4%29](Aluminum) , which can alternatively be accessed in a city by having a corporate branch there. Oil is available in all cities with [Standard%20Ethanol](Standard Ethanol) . Aluminum is available in all cities with [Aluminum%20Co.%20%28Civ4%29](Aluminum Co.) .
Tables of Resources by Type.
There are three main subtypes of resources: strategic resources, luxury resources, and food resources. These are described below, with a listing of the resources of each type.
Strategic Resources.
With the exception of [Uranium%20%28Civ4%29](Uranium) , all strategic resources give +1 Production tile bonus on their tile regardless of what tile improvement it may have, so long as the resource has been revealed. All except [Uranium%20%28Civ4%29](Uranium) give additional hammers when unlocked by the proper tile improvement.
Most strategic resources allow the building of certain military units, for example, a city must have access to Horses to build [List%20of%20mounted%20units%20in%20Civ4](mounted units), Iron for [Swordsmen%20%28Civ4%29](Swordsmen), or Uranium for the [ICBM%20%28Civ4%29](ICBM). Most of them also give a +100% production bonus to certain buildings. Marble and Stone are exceptional in that they do not permit any military unit, and one or the other of them gives +100% to the building of most [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ4](wonders).
Luxury Resources.
Most tile-based luxury resources give +1 Commerce tile bonus on their tile regardless of what tile improvement it may have. The three exceptions are [Ivory%20%28Civ4%29](Ivory) , which has a tile bonus of +1 Production, and [Sugar%20%28Civ4%29](Sugar) and [Whale%20%28Civ4%29](Whale) , which both have a tile bonus of +1 Food.
All tile-based luxury resources give additional Commerce when unlocked by the proper tile improvement. Note that [Gems%20%28Civ4%29](Gems) , [Gold%20%28Civ4%29](Gold) , and [Silver%20%28Civ4%29](Silver) have a "-1" improvement bonus yield, which decreases the [Mine%20%28Civ4%29](Mine's) Production from +2 (without a [Roads%20and%20railroads%20%28Civ4%29](railroad)) to +1 .
All luxury resources give +1 Happiness to cities that have access to them. Many give an additional +1 Happiness with an appropriate building, whereas others give +1 Health.
The three "Hit" luxury resources are exceptional in that they are not located on tiles. Instead, a monopoly is granted to whomever controls the resource's late-game [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ4](wonder), either by building the wonder or by capturing it from another civilization.
Food Resources.
All food resources give +1 Food tile bonus on their tile regardless of what tile improvement it may have. All of them give additional food when unlocked by the proper tile improvement.
All food resources give +1 Health to cities that have access to them, and an additional +1 Health with an appropriate building.
Calculating Tile Yields.
By using the above tables, along with the yield data from [Terrain%20%28Civ4%29](Terrain), the tile yields of any given tile can be calculated. Below are some examples of how such yields are derived.
Example 1.
In this first example, a riverside Plains-Hill [Windmill%20%28Civ4%29](Windmill) on top of [Coal%20%28Civ4%29](Coal) has a total yield of:
1 , 5 , 2 
The adjacent city contains a [Levee%20%28Civ4%29](Levee). The [Windmill%20%28Civ4%29](Windmill) is only partly upgraded: the technology [Replaceable%20Parts%20%28Civ4%29](Replaceable Parts) "has" been discovered, the technology [Electricity%20%28Civ4%29](Electricity) has "not" been discovered, and the [Environmentalism%20%28Civ4%29](Environmentalism civic) is "not" being run. The leader is "not" [Leader%20trait%20%28Civ4%29](Financial).
Using the above tables, we see that [Coal%20%28Civ4%29](Coal) is unlocked by either a [Mine%20%28Civ4%29](Mine) (or a [Fort%20%28Civ4%29](Fort), or a [City%20%28Civ4%29](City)) and only a Mine can allow Coal's improvement bonus yield of +1 . As a [Windmill%20%28Civ4%29](Windmill) is being used instead, no "improvement bonus yield is awarded". Additionally, even if the tile were connected to the civilization's capital by a [Roads%20and%20railroads%20%28Civ4%29](road), the use of a Windmill means that the tile does "not" make available any Coal resource, neither for domestic use nor for foreign trade. Nonetheless, the tile may still be valuable to the adjacent [City%20%28Civ4%29](city) working it, due to the relatively high yield.
Example 2.
In this example, a non-[Leader%20trait%20%28Civ4%29](Financial) leader has a Grassland-Flatland [Mine%20%28Civ4%29](Mine) on top of [Gems%20%28Civ4%29](Gems), with no [Roads%20and%20railroads%20%28Civ4%29](railroad), has a total yield of:
2 , 1 , 6 
Using the above tables, we see that [Gems%20%28Civ4%29](Gems) are unlocked by either a [Mine%20%28Civ4%29](Mine) (or a [Fort%20%28Civ4%29](Fort), or a [City%20%28Civ4%29](City)) with only a Mine allowing for the Gems' improvement bonus yield of +1 . Because a Mine is present, an improvement bonus of "-1" +5 "is awarded", which dramatically increases the tile's Commerce yield at the expense of a slight reduction of the Production yield which Mines usually provide. Because the enabling [Mining%20%28Civ4%29](Mining) technology has been discovered, the unlocking Mine improvement is present, "and" the tile is connected to the civilization's [Capital%20%28Civ4%29](capital city) by [Roads%20and%20railroads%20%28Civ4%29](road network), the Gems resource "is made available" to the civilization for domestic use or trade. If not traded away, the Gems provide +1 to all connected cities and an additional +1 to those with a [Forge%20%28Civ4%29](Forge), with additional bonuses available to connected cities with [Civilized%20Jewelers%20Inc.%20%28Civ4%29](Civilized Jewelers Inc.) .