# Revelation (Civ6)

Revelation is a Wildcard [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
This is one of the first Wildcards available in the game, and maybe the most important one, at least for players that intend to found a [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion). It will give you +2 points per turn, even without a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site)...or, if you dutifully construct the and its first [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) (the [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine)), 4 GPPs total plus any eventual bonuses. Although this may not be enough to earn the first couple of [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophets) (considering how ridiculously buffed the [AI](AI) is in the beginning of the game on higher [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulties)), it will ensure you get one soon afterwards.
Remember that in order to use this Card you'll need to develop [Political%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Political Philosophy), as well as [Mysticism%20%28Civ6%29](Mysticism) (unless you're playing as [Greek%20%28Civ6%29](Greece) or as [Polish%20%28Civ6%29](Poland) - then you will have a Wildcard slot already and won't need Political Philosophy). Now, Mysticism is not required for Political Philosophy, which means that you'll have to go out of the "straight" way in order to get it. If you choose to do it before going for P. Ph., then you'll be able to slot Revelation immediately after you switch to the more advanced [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government); otherwise you can do it after that, and use another card in the Wildcard slot for a few turns - both approaches have their merits. In the first case you will get early access to the [Oracle%20%28Civ6%29](Oracle), if you wish to construct it, as well as an extra ; in the second you will get a more advanced government a little sooner, and you'll get to use its benefits.
If you don't care about religion, you shouldn't use Revelation at all. Go for a more generally useful card, such as [Inspiration%20%28Civ6%29](Inspiration), or else use a non-Wildcard card in this slot to boost another aspect of your gameplay.
The card becomes obsolete after you recruit a Great Prophet, or if all Great Prophets have been recruited, allowing you to change your policies for free even if you haven't discovered a civic.