# Rise of the Mongols (Civ5)

 is a [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" that was released with the . The player plays as the [Mongolian%20%28Civ5%29](Mongols) and is supposed to annihilate (not just take the of) at least four major [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations) before running out of [turn](turn)s.
Intro.
Scenario Description.
All hail the mighty Khan, the new ruler of the united tribes of the Central Asian plateau! You have brought the Merkits, Naimans, Keraits, and Tatars under your domain, joining them with your own faithful Mongol Keshiks. Now that you command 5 tribes of horsemen, it is time to bring the rest of Eurasia under the Mongol yoke. But don't think this is necessarily an easy task - you must keep your greedy clansmen happy. They have promised to stay faithful to your Yassa code only if you can provide them adequate spoils of war. So there is no time to waste: journey out across the steppes and let your conquests begin!
Victory Conditions.
Victory is yours if you can conquer 4 or more major civilizations before 100 turns have elapsed. (On Difficulty Levels higher than Prince, you will need to conquer more than 4.) Tarry longer than the allotted time and your compatriots will grow impatient, causing your once mighty empire to dissolve into squabbling fiefdoms.
Special Rules.
The spoils you receive from conquest will be numerous and varied, all providing needed boosts and resources to continue pushing forward. For example, the troops of militaristic city states will join your forces. A cultural city state will provide a free social policy. And a maritime city state will provide extra gold for your treasury. Best of all, for conquering a major civilization you will receive a free technology and even greater riches!
Gameplay.
All of the civilizations in this scenario have access to their standard [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) and [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings). Mongolia is the only playable civilization, and gains unique benefits from capturing s. The benefits awarded are dependent on the type of that is conquered: Militaristic s award you with a couple pre-selected, but free units; Cultured city states award a free [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](Social Policy); Maritime s provide a sum of . 
The scenario ends when the required number of civilizations (minimum of 4, increases by 1 per [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ5%29](level of difficulty) above Prince) have been totally conquered, or when 100 turns elapse. Allowing 100 turns to pass before conquering the required number of civilizations results in failing the scenario.