# River (Civ6)

A River is a type of [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29%23Features](terrain feature) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It exists almost everywhere in the world, and it is unique in that it doesn't occupy its own [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) - instead it runs "between" tiles. Rivers always end in a body of water, and many times they start in a [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain). Each river is at least 2-3 tiles long (that is, it runs around 2-3 tiles); most rivers are 20+ tiles long.
Strategy.
Rivers are invaluable for [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) settlement, as they supply [Fresh%20water%20%28Civ6%29](fresh water) and enable the [Water%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Water Mill) (and various [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders)) to be built. With it, any city may get a good start at growing and producing as early as the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era)! An [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) built next to it will also supply a nearby city with Fresh Water for purposes.
But rivers do more than that. They provide a bulwark against invasions for any commander that knows how to use them; they turn [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Deserts) into paradise by enabling the [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) feature; they improve commerce thanks to the additional transport opportunities they provide for merchants.
Finally, you may use a River as means of finding the nearest sea in your early exploration. Every River flows from its source to either another River, or to a large body of water - just follow the flow direction.
"Gathering Storm" brings a whole new level of strategy to Rivers, as they are now areas of one of the brand new [Disasters%20%28Civ6%29](disasters): the [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](flood). Pay attention to the areas marked as [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) (they can appear now not only in deserts, but also in plains and grassland areas) - they are the ones which will flood during disasters. You can still develop them normally, but floods may damage or even outright destroy your improvements and districts placed there! However, they will also enrich the soil, adding and/or to their base yields, and potentially making them even more useful than before. Developing Floodplains becomes a calculated risk which may bring lots of pain or rich rewards.
River names.
"" introduced a new mechanic in which Rivers can have different names based on the first [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) that finds them. Below is a list of river names and, where applicable, the civilization/s they are assigned to.