# Road (Civ5)

Game Info.
Basic transport infrastructure. Requires [The%20Wheel%20%28Civ5%29](The Wheel).
Strategy.
In "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", the roads work a little differently than they do in the previous games. They are still constructed by [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers) and allow [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) to move larger distances within a turn by negating the movement costs of [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain). However, they now have an upkeep cost: roads within your [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) cost 1 per tile per turn.
If a road is within a [City%20%28Civ5%29](city's) [Borders%20%28Civ5%29](borders), the owner of the city pays for the maintenance of the road, regardless of which player built it. This allows for a potent exploit: sign an open borders treaty with an opponent, then build roads on every [hex](hex) possible within his or her cultural borders. This will severely weaken your opponent's economy, since they will lose 1 per turn per road hex. Running out of will slow your opponent's scientific progress and force [Military%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](military units) to disband, making it difficult for the opponent to discover new [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technologies) and maintain a defensive army without strengthening his or her economy first. Moreover, building roads will not cause [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic) incidents with [AI](AI) [Leaders%20%28Civ5%29](leaders), who may even propose to extend the open borders treaty.
[Railroad%20%28improvement%29%20%28Civ5%29](Railroads) make the aforementioned tactic twice as potent, thanks to their doubled maintenance cost. It can, however, be reduced by the [Wagon%20Trains%20%28Civ5%29](Wagon Trains) [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) from the [Commerce%20%28Civ5%29](Commerce) tree, which halves maintenance costs for roads and railroads once the player picks it.