# Rocktopus (CivBE)

Game info.
The Rocktopus is truly unique in that it has two modes: In one it's a floating ground unit, levitating very slowly above the ground. In this mode the Roctopus cannot attack, save launching Anti-Orbital strikes. In the other mode it turns into an orbital unit. It can launch itself into orbit at its current position (and if its orbital position doesn't overlap with other satellites), and will remain there for 10 turns unless it obtains the upgrade to allow manual de-orbit. After this time it will come back into ground mode instead of crashing as normal satellites do. While orbiting, the Rocktopus may attack units on the ground, similar to combat satellites.
Unit Upgrades.
Tier 1.
Early Rocktopi are able to deal very high ranged damage for their time, although they are quite frail. are also unlocked during this time and can shoot down Rocktopi from long range, so Rocktopi are best deployed defensively or behind the main line. Their orbital capabilities and coverage abilities make them excellent utility units, especially for players proficient in the use of . Rocktopi can also attack without being shot at except by artillery and cities, so they are great in null land fights.
Tier 2.
Tier 2 Rocktopi enter in the late game. At this point, most non-Harmony sponsors would have superior control of the and wildlife around them. Well, with the new Rocktopus, that time is over! The Rocktopus has the highest non-ultimate in the game at 92 and also generate Miasma in orbit. Miasma synergises excellently with Harmony units - especially and , which will generally be a frontline for Harmony players. The Rocktopi also provides additional coverage which can be used to deploy to further increase defense and healing, or , which are incredibly powerful and can be used to obliterate defending armies even in the late game. Prime Rocktopi can be used to rapidly generate Miasma by de-orbiting once all the Miasma in its range has been made, forming lines for your units to roll upon. It is still frail though, so be sure to deal with any artillery or other threats before deploying it.
Strategy.
The Roctopus is a great tactical weapon if used properly. While on the ground it's not of much use unless you want to shoot down enemy satellites. Its painfully slow movement means that it will require an excessive amount of turns to get into position unless you have or a in place. Once you move the Roctopus where it is needed you can first shoot down any enemy satellites nearby, then launch into orbit and use its Ranged Attack to devastating effect. 10 turns duration means you get to re-position it quickly, even without the manual de-orbiting upgrade.