# Roman (Civ6)

The Roman people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Trajan%20%28Civ6%29](Trajan), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are purple and yellow; and [Julius%20Caesar%20%28Civ6%29](Julius Caesar), under whom their default colors are dark red and yellow.
The Romans' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is All Roads Lead to Rome, which allows all their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) to start with a , automatically builds [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](roads) to new cities within trade range of their , and increases income from s going through their cities. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Legion%20%28Civ6%29](Legion) (which replaces the [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman)), and their unique is the [Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Bath) (which replaces the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct)).
Strategy.
[Starting%20bias%20%28Civ6%29]("Starting bias:") "None"
Rome is one of the easiest civilizations to play and their core strengths focus on two issues that every civilization faces: and . Defensive play is easier with Rome with free roads that allow easy mobilization and movement of your armies, while the slight amount of extra helps pay for the mass investment in infrastructure a Roman player should be undertaking. However, these bonuses are not specialized for Science, Culture, or even Domination Victories, and a skilled player can do better with other civs while avoiding the pitfalls of reaching the caps, or running out of . The main Roman strategy is [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" at its finest: expand, then expand some more, and finally, expand some more.
Trajan's Column (Trajan).
When starting a game in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era), Rome is one of the few civs that will have more per turn than , as Trajan's leader ability gives them a free [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument) in the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center). Since Monuments normally take about ten-fifteen turns to build at the start of the game, this lets Rome save valuable time and . This ability phases out of usefulness in the later game, when Monuments can be built quickly and easily, but this ability makes Rome much better in the early game, as Rome can devote early towards Settlers and military units without fear of lacking in .
In "", this ability is further augmented by the new [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) system, where Monuments produce +1 Loyalty per turn. Since Rome excels at conquest, they can easily capture new cities and not have to worry as much about captured cities revolting.
The free building that Roman cities get in their City Center becomes more advanced when starting the game in later [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) - if the game starts in the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Information Era), it can even be a [Flood%20Barrier%20%28Civ6%29](Flood Barrier).
Veni, Vidi, Vici (Julius Caesar).
Under Julius Caesar, Rome's focus changes from a more generalist to a more Domination Victory focus. Before the update, Caesar earned 100 for each [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29%23Outposts](Barbarian outpost) destroyed and 200 for each city conquered, both of which increased to 500 once he researched [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel). Now since the update, the amount of gold earned in the early game has been tripled to 300 for both the Barbarian Outposts and the cities, 500 after researching Metal Casting and 700 after researching Steel, along with a bonus 5 combat strength and full experience against barbarians, which is a huge bonus. This makes playing against barbarians even more viable than before. To put things in perspective, Caesar's ability now increases the reward to ten times the normal amount for clearing a Barbarian outpost (30 on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed) and Prince [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty)), enabling you to afford more units and leading to a snowball effect once you start conquering other cities. When playing as Caesar, be sure to adopt [Democracy%20%28Civ6%29](Democracy) as your [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government) (or [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic) under the vanilla ruleset) so you can get a discount on purchases and make the earnings from your conquests go even further.
Where this bonus really shines is the [Barbarian%20Clans%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian Clans) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode). Barbarian Clans gives you the option to raid outposts rather than dispersing them, which allows you to earn even more from each one. You can earn hundreds or even thousands of once you find enough outposts, then spend it on more units and go conquer the world!
All Roads Lead To Rome.
With all of this extra from Trajan, Rome can quickly pick up [Foreign%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Foreign Trade) without needing to explore a lot (exploration is always encouraged, though). Upon completion of Foreign Trade, Rome should build a Trader and send it to the second city that they should have built while other civs are still struggling to build Monuments. With their extra from the preexisting , Rome will already have early game riches.
While [Caravansaries%20%28Civ6%29](Caravansaries) is normally useless, Rome can put it to good use in order to make their early game s even more profitable.
As far as technologies go, Rome needs to make a beeline for [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Iron Working), which will grant them their unique unit, the [Legion%20%28Civ6%29](Legion), which is stronger than the normal [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman) and can be amassed fairly quickly (see below). Once the Legion is unlocked, early conquest of a neighbor is inevitable, as it will grant free land with free buildings, free , and free roads.
After Iron Working, [Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Engineering) is the next technology Rome needs to make sure to research, as the [Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Bath) is a phenomenal replacement for the [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct). Build Baths in every city that you can. Ironically, the Bath makes building the Colosseum (and the [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex)) a little redundant, as Roman cities will already have all the they need.
Bath.
The extra 2 , 1 , and lower cost provide a great advantage to grow larger cities before the [Sewer%20%28Civ6%29](Sewer) and [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhood) are available. That means Roman cities with a Bath can support 2 more Citizens than those of other civs with an Aqueduct. It's wise to found cities near sources of fresh water and build the Bath when it becomes available, or at least place it soon to avoid the increase to cost over time. When combined with Rome's and Trajan's unique abilities and the Legion, the Bath allows the Romans to claim more territory and build larger cities more quickly and safely than other civs.
Legion.
The Legion's raw strength and ability to create fortifications make it an invaluable tool in early-game expansion. Capturing multiple [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) in a single campaign becomes much easier, since defenses can be constructed immediately around a captured city. They can also repair damaged tile upgrades.
A different, very powerful strategy is to use the Legion's ability to spend their build charge to chop [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods). This allows the Legion to create a sort of chain reaction: train a Legion, then use its build charge to expedite the training of another Legion, and repeat until you run out of Woods (or in "Gathering Storm"). This can get you an extremely large early game army that can spell instant doom for your neighbors.
Dedicated completionists should refrain from upgrading at least one Legion and keep its single build charge intact until late in the game, then use it to clear the fallout left behind by a [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ6%29](nuclear weapon). Doing so will unlock an [Steam%20achievements%20in%20Civ6](achievement).
Roman Fort.
While it functions identically to a standard [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Fort), the Roman Fort is built by a Legion rather than a [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineer). This means that the Romans have access to Forts as soon as they research Iron Working rather than [Siege%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Tactics), effectively allowing them to start consolidating their defenses two [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) earlier than other civilizations. By having their Legions build these in strategic locations around their territory, the Romans can make their lands virtually unassailable in the early stages of the game.
The Roman Fort does not count as a unique improvement or grant +4 [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) when built, nor can it trigger the for [Ballistics%20%28Civ6%29](Ballistics).
Victory Types.
Rome is a great generalist civilization, with lots of free stuff and the ability to minimize problems that all other civilizations face, like and . An early game Domination Victory would not be difficult, with their buffs to captured cities and their Legion. Their massive and populous cities make a Science Victory very achievable. Their free makes a Culture Victory easy to achieve. Rome has no bonuses towards Diplomatic or Religious Victories, but there is nothing stopping them from trying to go down that path, either.
Counter Strategy.
Beating Rome revolves around surviving the early game, since the Romans' abilities make them terrifying early conquerors but fall off later in the game. If you encounter Rome in the late game, on a different [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent) perhaps, and they are not rushing toward your continent to conquer it, then they probably do not pose a significant threat, but if you find them in the early game, then you had better quickly work to satisfy Trajan's agenda, or prepare for a rush of Legions. It may be difficult to do so if their territory is dotted with Roman Forts, but try to pillage their cities' Baths, since the Romans rely on them for and and doing so will be a blow to their output. If you can survive to the late [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), you are probably out of the woods, since the Legion will be largely obsolete by this time and Rome has no other direct military bonuses. Watch out for them, however, as a Cultural Victory competitor later on.