# Roman (Civ5)

The Roman people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
Apart from their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) (best used in matches with a lower [Speed%20%28Civ5%29](game speed)), the Romans don't have a very well-defined advantage. It requires a specific approach to the game in which they are played: a wide empire with lots of [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings). The only certain thing with them is that your should have strong and be the first place you construct each new building - by doing so, you'll gain a nice bonus and manage to finish buildings much more quickly than normal in your other [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities). This stacks early game with the [Republic%20%28Civ5%29](Republic) [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policy), and other help from [Liberty%20%28Civ5%29](Liberty) makes it the preferred tree.
Apart from that, the Romans enjoy a very interesting early game advantage: the ability to construct [Road%20%28Civ5%29](roads) and [Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Forts) with their unique [Legion%20%28Civ5%29](Legions). This allows the player to create the initial road network of his or her empire without using [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers), which frees them to build other improvements. Use this to jump-start your economy in the early game.
One strategy is to beeline for the necessary techs (i.e. [Iron%20Working%20%28Civ5%29](Iron Working), followed by [The%20Wheel%20%28Civ5%29](The Wheel) and [Engineering%20%28Civ5%29](Engineering)), and then spam Legions. Their unique ability will simplify your path to conquest, as you can make roads to the very cities you want to conquer. In this respect, the [Ballista%20%28Civ5%29](Ballista) (Rome's unique replacement for the [Catapult%20%28Civ5%29](Catapult)) is very good, as it is versatile against both cities and [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units).
After building your road network, you can either start waging war on your neighbors, or entrench yourself by making Forts. The cities that you conquer are going to make more military units, as you have hopefully made all the necessary training buildings in your already.
Simplified, your will spam buildings, and your conquered cities will produce even more military units for your mighty war machine. After making peace with your opponent, you can focus on building [Courthouse%20%28Civ5%29](Courthouses), and after that, since you have that nice bonus, your cities will build faster.
Therefore, your will be the cornerstone of your empire, no matter what. Always guard it well, and never shrink away from retaking it, even against massive odds - and, of course, don't wage too many wars. Legions are incredibly capable of holding their own, even against [Immortal%20%28Civ5%29](Immortals) and early gunpowder units, but they can only take so much punishment.
Simplified (again), the Roman Empire will have a fierce, early rush, followed by prolonged periods of peace.