# Royal Navy Dockyard (Civ6)

The Royal Navy Dockyard is a unique of the [English%20%28Civ6%29](English) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) and must be built on a [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) or [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) adjacent to land.
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in the Royal Navy Dockyard:
Strategy.
Playing as England, you should make your navy a priority. Research [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation) and [Shipbuilding%20%28Civ6%29](Shipbuilding) as soon as you can. While you research these techs, make a couple of [Galley%20%28Civ6%29](Galleys) to explore and find new [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continents). Once you research Shipbuilding make several [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers), send them across the sea to continents, and build Royal Navy Dockyards in your new [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities).
After you finish Shipbuilding, you can do one of two things. You can either rush [Cartography%20%28Civ6%29](Cartography) and [Square%20Rigging%20%28Civ6%29](Square Rigging) to get powerful naval units, or focus on and rush [Redcoat%20%28Civ6%29](Redcoats) (which Victoria's leader ability will provide). The instant you get Redcoats, it's basically over for every other civ. Since they are so expensive to maintain, however, you need to have enough to support your army, which will grow larger every time you conquer a city on another continent. Keep your economy strong by building [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) and economic buildings in your cities and sending [Trade%20Route%20%28Civ6%29](Trade Routes) to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) and neighbors with whom you aren't at war.
With Royal Navy Dockyards on every continent, you'll soon attract [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ6%29](Great Admirals) who can help you achieve naval supremacy. If you get [Gaius%20Duilius%20%28Civ6%29](Gaius Duilius) (whose ability forms a Fleet out of any naval unit), save him until you get your first [Frigate%20%28Civ6%29](Frigate), then use him on it. An early game Frigate Fleet will absolutely destroy [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) cities. Even better, if you get [Santa%20Cruz%20%28Civ6%29](Santa Cruz), you can use him to form a Frigate Armada and own the ocean!
However, controlling the ocean will do you no good if you can't see what's hidden over the horizon, and other players will become suspicious if they see a Frigate Fleet or Armada near their borders. To solve this problem, discover [Mercantilism%20%28Civ6%29](Mercantilism) as quickly as possible and begin producing Sea Dogs, then send them out to certain strategic spots on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) so they can patrol the ocean without being seen. If someone tries to turn the tables on you and launch a surprise assault on your shores, you'll know it's coming and be able to capture their ships with your Sea Dogs while the rest of your navy deals with any embarked units.
Another incredible strategy you can utilize with this district is pre-building a few of them to 1 turn, then rushing to Square Rigging and finishing them all in one turn, instantly creating you a powerful and advanced navy, and likely the economy to support it provided they have good adjacency.