# Russian (Civ5)

The Russian people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Strategy.
Undoubtedly, the main focus for Russia is rapid expansion. Their [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ5%29](start bias) towards [Tundra%20%28Civ5%29](tundra) means their will likely be difficult to build [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements) around, and nearby [Forest%20%28Civ5%29](forests) will slow the movement of mounted [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units), so obtaining some new land and [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resources) with an army will be helpful. Focus on tiles such as [Plains%20%28Civ5%29](plains) with balanced yields, and select [Liberty%20%28Civ5%29](Liberty) where possible for [Republic%20%28Civ5%29](Republic).
The extra for each improved strategic resource helps for building an army, including the [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique) [Cossack%20%28Civ5%29](Cossack). This mounted unit receives a powerful combat bonus against damaged units, similar to a copy of [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29%23Charge](Charge). Once active, the bonuses make Russia suitable for a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory), although it may also facilitate any other type of [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory) through faster construction. The doubled quantity of , , and means in the mid- to late game, you are free to invest more into key units including Cossacks, [Frigate%20%28Civ5%29](Frigates), and [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ5%29](nuclear weapons).
The [Krepost%20%28Civ5%29](Krepost) replaces the [Barracks%20%28Civ5%29](Barracks) and can reduce the and costs of acquiring new tiles by 25 percent, allowing you to snatch up large areas of land and the aforementioned resources and bonuses. However, it is not especially competitive because when there is production time and maintenance funds available, the [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) will have mostly expanded regardless.
To make best use of these abilities, research [Animal%20Husbandry%20%28Civ5%29](Animal Husbandry) and [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ5%29](Bronze Working) early on, scout the surrounding lands and discover sources of and especially , then settle cities near them to expand - this also maximizes the Republic [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policy) bonus. Besides the aforementioned unit limit and bonuses, improving resources allows their use their in trade to ensure extra revenue! Note that for the [AI](AI), a 5:1 count of strategic resources are roughly equal to that of a luxury resource or 1 GPT. You could, for example, you could exchange 5 for 1 , or for 5 GPT.