# Saka Horse Archer (Civ6)

The Saka Horse Archer is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged%20cavalry](ranged cavalry unit) of the [Scythian%20%28Civ6%29](Scythian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
Compared to an [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archer), the Saka Horse Archer has the exact same Ranged Strength and Combat Strength, but greater mobility and 1 less . Overall, ranged units with 1 have a very limited scope of use in combat, except on defense. The purpose of a ranged unit is to focus fire and whittle down enemy units from behind the front line. Ranged units with 1 cannot focus fire well and expose themselves to the front line when attacking, where their low Combat Strength makes it easy for enemies to kill them quickly. Also, since Scythia is a pure domination civilization, there is just no reason for you to play on defense. Things would be slightly better if between the Saka Horse Archer and the Archer, there was only a simple trade-off of for mobility, but the Saka Horse Archer is almost twice as expensive as the Archer to train and twice as expensive to maintain. If you take into account the fact that you get two of these every time you build one, it is slightly cheaper than an Archer, but will quadruple the maintenance cost. A large number of Saka Horse Archers will create a huge economic burden on your empire without actually boasting any militaristic prowess on the battlefield, though this can be eased with liberal use of your [Kurgan%20%28Civ6%29](Kurgans.) This unit is not the backbone of a strong Scythian army, so you should build it only once for the Era Score, and then delete or kill both of them to save your , as this unit is definitely not worth the high investment. Archers will be slightly slower than your army of [Horseman%20%28Civ6%29](Horsemen), but their greater allows them to fill the same niche as Saka Horse Archers at least as well and at a much lower cost.
Since this unit upgrades to the [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29](Field Cannon), you can train a few Saka Horse Archers before researching [Ballistics%20%28Civ6%29](Ballistics), then immediately slot [Professional%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Professional Army) or [Force%20Modernization%20%28Civ6%29](Force Modernization) to upgrade them. You will instantly have an army of Field Cannons for a cheap cost, thanks to the Scythian civilization ability. However, this strategy should only be attempted when you have a lot of from your previous conquests, as ranged units after the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman) are generally underwhelming (read more [Field%20Cannon%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategy](here)), especially when they are just fresh out of the gate without any previous s. Unless your treasury is overflowing with , your best bet is to save it to upgrade your light cavalry units to [Cavalry%20%28Civ6%29](Cavalry), also unlocked in the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era).