# Scholasticism (Civ5)

Scholasticism is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) tree and requires [Philanthropy%20%28Civ5%29](Philanthropy).
Developing further connections with Allied [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states), enlightened rulers send them some of their own bright scholars, who engage in scientific discussions with the local community. The resulting debate and exchange of ideas brings new scientific understanding which may greatly help the empire's technological development!
Strategy.
The power of Scholasticism increases the more Allied [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states) you have, and the more technologically developed they are. Note that Friendly City-States won't contribute, just Allies! Of course, there's no way to tell in-game how much a particular City-State produces, but it stands to reason that those with a larger Population produce more Science. 
So, if you're strong in Diplomacy and manage to have more than 1-2 Allies at any time, you may consider adopting this Policy even if you don't intend developing the full [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) tree. It's a level 2 Policy, which means you only need [Philanthropy%20%28Civ5%29](Philanthropy) to unlock it. And if you intend to finish this tree, you will need Scholasticism to progress further anyway. The only consideration then may be how many Allies you have at the moment, and whether [Consulates%20%28Civ5%29](Consulates) will yield a more immediate benefit (if you don't have it yet). 