# Scientific Revolution (Civ5)

Scientific Revolution is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It is part of the [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism) tree and requires . In "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" it requires [Sovereignty%20%28Civ5%29](Sovereignty).
After your society has been prepared by the careful introduction of progressive policies, it starts what's known as the "scientific revolution." Of course, no guns or swords are involved here, but the revolutionary concepts and ideas which develop as a result of questioning centuries-old assumptions, such as that the Sun rotates around the (flat) Earth. After a number of these ridiculous concepts are conclusively disproved, people feel so enlightened that they are encouraged to seriously delve into science, along with other nations' scientists - which greatly benefits the nation's technological progress, of course.
Strategy.
This is logically and conceptually the last Policy to adopt in the [Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism) tree (although technically you can adopt it as third, right after [Secularism%20%28Civ5%29](Secularism) and [Sovereignty%20%28Civ5%29](Sovereignty)). The other two Policies, [Humanism%20%28Civ5%29](Humanism) and especially [Free%20Thought%20%28Civ5%29](Free Thought), are arguably much more useful, and more immediately so than Scientific Revolution. 
The only exception to this rule would be if you have already entered into a number of [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29%23Research%20Agreement](research agreements) and expect them to come to fruition soon. In this case, the immediate tech progress jump could be more useful than the long-term benefit.
It goes without saying that in order to make use of this Policy, you should from now on seek to enter into as many research agreements as possible; otherwise you won't see any effect. This naturally requires making friends with other nations, so a particularly bellicose civilization may have some problems benefiting from Scientific Revolution.