# Science (Civ2)

The Science research contributed by a [city%20%28Civ2%29](city) is indicated by the beaker symbols in the resource window of the city display. The science from a city is added to previous research and, if enough research has been done, a new [List%20of%20advances%20in%20Civ2](civilization advance) is achieved. The amount of science a city produces is mainly determined by the science rate of your civilization, the percentage of each city's trade that arrives as new knowledge. You can modify this rate by adjusting your science rate from the Game menu.
You can also increase science by building [Library%20%28Civ2%29](Library), [University%20%28building%29%20%28Civ2%29](University), and [Research%20Lab%20%28Civ2%29](Research Lab) improvements, certain [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ2](Wonders), and by turning some of your citizens into [Specialist%20%28Civ2%29](Scientists).
Civilopedia entry.
The amount of scientific research contributed by a city is indicated by the light bulb icons shown in the Resource Chart of the City Display. At the start of each turn, the science output of each city is added to the research project currently in progress, eventually resulting in the discovery of a new Civilization Advance. The more light bulbs each city produces, the faster new Advances are discovered. The amount of science produced by your civilization is primarily determined by the amount of incoming Trade you have allocated to science. This percentage can be adjusted by selecting the "Change " command on the Kingdom menu.
The science output of individual cities and your civilization as a whole can also be increased by building certain City Improvements and Wonders of the World, or by converting citizens into Scientists.