# Scout (Civ6)

The Scout is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Recon](recon unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is available without any [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technological) research.
In the "" expansion, the Scout can upgrade to a [Skirmisher%20%28Civ6%29](Skirmisher).
Strategy.
Scouts (and their dogs) are used primarily for exploration in the early game, and are highly recommended as one of the first things to build because of how important your surrounding [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) is. While not helpless, they are relatively weak, so they should generally try to avoid battle. However, due to their mobility, Scouts can position themselves favorably to provide [Flanking%20and%20Support%20%28Civ6%29](flanking/support bonuses) to your other combat units. Scouts will gain experience whenever they visit a [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Village) or discover a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonder).
Note that unlike the [Scout%20%28Civ5%29](Scout) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" (which started with an inherent [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion) that allowed it to ignore all [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) penalties), the movement of the Scout in "Civilization VI" is not that great when it's a rookie. Yes, it has 3 MPs, but with the new movement rules that doesn't help it much in dense [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods)/[Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests) or [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](hilly) areas. However, the very first it can acquire allows it to move faster through certain types of terrain, and here is the crux: you have to choose wisely what its first promotion will be! Depending on your choice, its movement may be boosted considerably, or not. Also, when crossing a [River%20%28Civ6%29](River), the Scout is subject to the same movement rules as other units. Furthermore, one may be able to take advantage of the "one unit per [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile)" rule by using one's Scout to block an opponent's troops from approaching the player's [Borders%20%28Civ6%29](border), or to stop the player's opponent from moving their units to an ally's [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) in preparation for war.
[Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian) Scouts should be prioritized whenever possible. Should they spot a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city), they'll attempt to find an outpost to report to and spawn a raiding party. Barbarian Scouts that have found a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) will be marked with a red exclamation point (!). Pursuing them is extremely difficult due to their 3 MPs, so use multiple units that exert a [Zone%20of%20control%20%28Civ6%29](zone of control) or force Scouts to hug the coast or a chokepoint in order to restrict their movement. On top of this, their mobility enables them to appear from areas you can't see to plunder s.
Bugs.
Scouts are the only land units that are capable of revealing [Unit%20%28Civ6%29%23Stealth%20units](stealth units) in their radius.