# Secret Societies (Civ6)

Secret Societies is the second [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", introduced in the [Ethiopia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia Pack). It includes four different Secret Societies that players can join, each of which has its own perks for members (including new [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources), [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings), [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements), [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units), and [Project%20%28Civ6%29](city projects)). It requires either the ' or the ' expansion to play.
Mechanics.
The Secret Societies game mode introduces four Societies: secret organizations with unique abilities which players may use to their benefit.
To join a Society, a player must first discover it. This is achieved via a specific gameplay action, which is different for each Society:
The chance of discovery is not always 100%, however - you may need to perform the necessary action several times in order to discover a Society.
Once discovered, a Society will send you an invitation to join them. Note also that the first time you discover any Society, you will earn 1 Governor title. A new [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governor) will appear in your Governor screen - a representative for the respective Society, which will be your liaison with them. You join the Society simply by choosing to promote this new Governor, using one of your Governor titles (hence the free title you gain when discovering the first Society). Once you go through this initiation process, competing Governors from other Societies will disappear - you may not join more than one Society. You can still discover new ones by performing the corresponding action listed above, but all you can do now is simply observe their secret signs and learn to recognize them in other players (that is, learn which Society they are members of).
The new Governor has four unique titles, does not need to be assigned to a specific city, and has bonuses that apply to the entire empire. If you unlock a replacement building, the original buildings that were already built will be replaced but those that are being constructed will be destroyed and you have to restart building the replacement building. You can unlock these titles by earning Governor titles like normal, but tier 2, tier 3 and tier 4 titles can be unlocked only by reaching a certain [Era%20%28Civ6%29%23World%20Era](World Era):
The four Secret Societies from which you can choose in this mode are as follows:
Strategy.
The Secret Societies mode almost exclusively offers benefits (unlike some of the other modes, like [Apocalypse%20%28Civ6%29](Apocalypse)): a set of bonuses for each different Society which are tailored to a particular gameplay style. The bonuses are well-suited for the particular moment of the game when they unlock, and subsequent bonuses often synergize with previous ones, or even enhance them. For example, the is the first bonus of the Hermetic Society, and initially all it does is offer a major adjacency bonus to all s. Later, however, every becomes a workable tile, and its yields increase with each you earn (or have previously earned). Thus, initially the player uses s only as good locations for s, but later may include them into its territory and reap great benefits by simply working them. The Vampire, on the other hand, becomes stronger with each unit it kills, and can build Vampire Castles to enhance the yields of your and teleport your units around the map.
Thus, joining a Society at the earliest opportunity is highly recommended. Of course, you shouldn't join the first society you discover - you need to decide which one will help you most in your chosen playstyle. Fortunately, discovering each Society shouldn't be much of a problem - the necessary actions are taken naturally in the first phase of the game. Still, if you plan to join the Hermetic Order or the Voidsingers you should concentrate on early scouting (so that you may find Tribal Villages and natural wonders); this may also help when joining the Owls of Minerva, since it increases the chance of you being the first to meet a city-state (which nets you a free , and fulfills the requirement). On the other hand, if you want to join the Sanguine Pact, you should churn out units and aggressively attack the nearest Barbarian outposts before another [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) or city-state manages to disperse them.
Basically, we can equate the Secret Societies bonuses to [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religious) bonuses, and you should treat them as such. Of course, there is none of the added complexity of religious play, such as spreading religion, [Theological%20combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat), or [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](pursuit of victory) - you only need to make a strategic decision in the beginning of the game. It is a very important decision, though, which Society you will join, because depending on your chosen playstyle you may reap great rewards, or simply waste the opportunity. Non-aggressive players will find little benefit in possessing Vampires, while players who haven't developed their generation and religion won't be able to make good use of the Voidsingers' benefits.
Of course, not all is roses in this mode: you will suffer a hefty diplomatic penalty with players who are members of a society other than your own. And of course, they will also reap the benefits of their respective societies, which will affect the overall balance in the game. Still, this drawback is quite mild compared to having [Comet%20Strike%20%28Civ6%29](comets) destroy your cities at the end of the game.