# Security Monitor (CTP2)

 is a [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20CTP2](building) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The Security Monitor represents an altogether unpleasant solution to the scourge of city . By installing a Security Monitor in a city, one can monitor every citizen's actions. The pervasiveness of security surveillance brings with it a sharp decline in crime. However, this may prove a minor victory in the face of what will be an embittered and deeply unhappy public.
Great Library entry.
Advancements in video technology, computer systems and artificial intelligence proliferated in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. The prevalence of private security systems in homes, businesses and institutions was not a new phenomenon. However, in response to an increasingly strident public outcry at rising crime rates, many cities began to install security systems in public places. These new systems employed sophisticated AI protocols to monitor activity and process any abnormalities. At first, law enforcement efforts found the new AI surveillance systems a boon to their operations. Crime rates dropped, due to enhanced criminal identification and apprehension efforts.
Some law enforcement advocates began to speculate on the potential uses for AI surveillance in private areas as well. They pointed to their successes on the streets as proof of the system's worth and pressed law-makers to relax privacy laws in order to enable building owners to install surveillance systems in their buildings to monitor tenants. What had become a positive solution to the problem of public-area crime became a nightmarish violation of privacy, as government and law enforcement now had the power to monitor people in their own homes. The same public that demanded surveillance systems on the streets now found cameras in their homes. Crime continued to drop, as people no longer had a place to hide their illicit activities. However, the constant invasion of privacy, once a right guaranteed by many civilized nations, had created an embittered and outraged public.