# Seowon (Civ6)

The Seowon is a unique of the [Korean%20%28Civ6%29](Korean) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) and must be built on [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills).
Buildings.
The following [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) can be constructed in a Seowon:
Strategy.
The Seowon is undoubtedly the centerpiece of the entire Korean gameplay, so much so that even the entire civilization ability, Three Kingdoms, revolves solely around it. Learning how to play Korea effectively only boils down to how place Seowons in the most efficient manner, which is pretty simple. 
The Seowon has a starting adjacency bonus of 4, scaling downward by 1 for every adjacent , including non-specialty like the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) or [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct). The only exception is the , whose own built-in bonus cancels the penalty. For this reason, combined with the civilization ability, the best spot to place down a Seowon is in the second ring of the city in an open area where you can start putting down [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mines) afterwards. Keep in mind that Seowons can only be built on Hills when you settle new cities. Considering the significant output of this and the level of importance it has for Korea, [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery) and [Writing%20%28Civ6%29](Writing) should always be the first two technologies you research every game. The only detour that you can sometimes take is to pick up [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining), if you happen to spawn in an area with a lot of [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), and you need to clear them to make space for your Seowon. 
This also means that [Natural%20Philosophy%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Philosophy) (unlocked with [Recorded%20History%20%28Civ6%29](Recorded History)) and [Rationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Rationalism) (unlocked with [The%20Enlightenment%20%28Civ6%29](The Enlightenment)) are two incredibly powerful cards for Korea, and thus their respective civics will need to be beelined as quickly as possible, especially Recorded History, since Natural Philosophy is just an easier card to be effective for Korea and it will shine in every game and every situation. Regarding Rationalism, after a series of nerfs to this card, its power level is definitely not where it used to be. While Korea pretty much guarantees the first condition (high adjacency Campuses), growing cities to 15 Population reliably is a tall order. Their civilization ability is very underwhelming and serves a complementary role more than anything, additional from Farms next to Seowons will barely be enough to set you apart from other civilizations without any bonus towards growth. Therefore, if you mess up the Seowon placement by putting down a next to it, there is no way to reverse that since the Seowon's adjacency bonus only scales downward, never upward. This actually happens more often than it should, even for experienced players. Since the Seowon is most likely the first you build in every city, and for every afterward, the habit of putting down s where they benefit from the highest starting adjacency often distracts from the fact that that optimal spot may be right next to a Seowon, thus disqualifying that Seowon from being able to benefit from the one condition of Rationalism that is supposed to be easy to grab. For that reason, whenever you put down a Seowon, you may want to put a marker to remind yourself never construct a in that area. Last but not least, try to plan your game so that you can get a [Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age) in [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) and/or [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era), so you can pick the Heartbeat of Steam Dedication. When combined with Natural Philosophy, each Seowon grants up to 8 on top of the it is already generating.
As highlighted above (and even more so in the [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon) article), generation is crucial for any scientific civilization, and Korea is no exception. However, if you are looking for a unique experience playing such a straightforward civilization like Korea, try to aim for a Dark Age in [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) to have access to [Monasticism%20%28Civ6%29](Monasticism). With an outrageous early , an extra 75% is a lucrative deal, even at the cost of 25% . This card is a Dark Age policy card, available only in the Classical and Medieval Era. Nonetheless, you need time to build Holy Sites to benefit from it, and the Era Score from building the Seowon in Ancient Era makes the most viable time to be in a Dark Age is Medieval. Even if you cannot enter a Dark Age in Medieval Era, the from Holy Sites you build can still be used to patron later on. 
Undoubtedly, the biggest and most exploitable weakness of this is how vulnerable it is to espionage. The fact that you will have a Seowon in every single city means there are always more points of entry for Steal Tech Boost missions than you can ever protect. Also, since the Seowon has to be built in isolation, protecting it means all other s will end up being easy preys: your [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors) will be removed, your [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) will be pillaged and your [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) will be constantly robbed. For this reason, any Spy that you can unlock should be used for defensive purposes. Korea is pretty much a one-trick pony, it is very well-known that if this civilization is in the game, it will go for a scientific victory. Therefore, it is better to use your agents to defend your obvious weak points that every scientific civilization has, rather than using them offensively. Any Spy that helps with counterespionage is great for Korea: [Polygraph%20%28Civ6%29](Polygraph), [Quartermaster%20%28Civ6%29](Quartermaster), [Surveillance%20%28Civ6%29](Surveillance), or the [Cryptography%20%28Civ6%29](Cryptography) policy card as well.
In "", the power level of the Seowon is a bit hampered even though there is no direct nerf to this district. The regular Campus is now the easiest district to give a high starting adjacency bonus, due to major bonuses next to [Reef%20%28Civ6%29](Reefs) and [Geothermal%20Fissure%20%28Civ6%29](Geothermal Fissures) and many curvy [Mountain%20%28Civ6%29](mountain) ranges on the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) (thanks to new map generations). On certain map types (most notably, Primordial, where Mountains and Geothermal Fissures appear in huge numbers), the Seowon even loses sometimes when compared to its counterpart, since its is capped at 4 and can only scale downward. Even then, however, it is still only half as expensive as the Campus, which is a powerful option to have in and of itself, not to mention the boosts that it gives to basic improvements thanks to Korea's civilization ability.