# Settling a city (Civ5)

This article will give you information and advice on settling a city in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
Basics.
In order to settle (or found) a new [City%20%28Civ5%29](city), you need a special civilian unit called a [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settler). This is a standard land unit that is available right from the start of the game, but can only be produced in cities with a minimum of 2. The Settler is used by moving it to the location where you plan to settle, then pressing the "Found City" button; this consumes the unit and adds a new city to the [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) on the same tile that the Settler previously occupied. You may assign projects to your new city immediately.
You can found as many cities as you want to (or have space to), but there are a couple of considerations to be taken into account, which will be explained below.
Cities have to be at least 4 tiles apart from each other. That includes your cities as well as other [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations') cities, and it prevents players from littering the map with cities. Other than that, cities may be founded on any tile to which a Settler unit can move (including a 1-tile island), as long as that tile is not under the control of another player. Cities on different landmasses (i.e., separated by open water) are an exception to this rule - they need be only 3 tiles apart.
It is possible to settle in tiles adjacent to [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](barbarian) units or [Encampment%20%28Civ5%29](encampments). Doing this will immediately destroy any encampments within the borders of your new city, but without providing any rewards. Barbarian units, however, will be unaffected, and will remain active after the founding of your city.
Lastly, you can't settle a city on a tile containing [City%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](City Ruins) (where a city used to exist until it was razed).
Technical Details When Founding a City.
When you found a city in a particular tile, this tile becomes the basis of its production capabilities. The founding process adds some and/or to the tile's potential, so that each city has at least 2 and 1 output. So, for example, if you settle a city on a [Desert%20%28Civ5%29](Desert) tile (0 potential of any kind), the city tile will start producing 2 and 1 ("more observations needed"). This is so that the new city has at least the means to feed a minimum population and produce something. Of course, if there is more considerable potential on the tile, this can only help the new city.
You can found cities on top of [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resources). This doesn't mean you'll be unable to use them - on the contrary, you immediately gain access to the resource when doing so, as if you've just built an [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvement) on it. Note, however, that you won't gain access to the resource if you haven't researched the [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology) which allows your empire to access it! For example, if you settle a city on a tile with , you won't have access to it until you research [Calendar%20%28Civ5%29](Calendar).
Furthermore, you'll gain access to any bonus [List%20of%20buildings%20in%20Civ5](buildings) tied to this resource, and to any benefits directly affecting the resource. For example, if you settle a city on a tile with , you can then build a [Forge%20%28Civ5%29](Forge) in the city, and building it will increase on the city tile by 1. However, you won't gain any benefits that are related to a particular improvement for this resource - for example, you won't gain an extra point after researching [Chemistry%20%28Civ5%29](Chemistry) (which adds +1 to all [Mine%20%28Civ5%29](Mines)).
Every city always works its main city tile. New cities start with 1 , which means they can work 1 additional tile besides the main city tile. The greater a city's , the more of the surrounding tiles it will be able to work.
New cities enlarge your empire's [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory), adding all surrounding tiles to it. Note that this initial territory won't start expanding until you produce at least 1 in the city.
Empire Consequences When Founding a City.
Founding a city (as well as [Conquered%20cities%20%28Civ5%29](conquering one) and officially adding it to the empire) has some negative consequences for your empire that you need to pay attention to. These are as follows:
Where to Found a City.
Choosing the right place to found a city in "Civilization V" is very important, and determines to a large degree how successful your empire will be. You should think about the following things:
Resources.
To have access to any resources, especially strategic and luxury ones, you need them to be within your territory. Founding cities near them (1-3 tiles away) is the best way to assure that. Never forget that a city may only work tiles that are at most 3 tiles away from its main city tile. So, when choosing the spot, try to include as many resources within 3 tiles of it as you can. Even though your budding city won't include them into its territory yet, it will start growing it later with exactly this in mind.
Many times a resource may cause territorial contest. When there are two cities (one yours, one belonging to another civilization) in range of a resource, you have to be wary - the other civilization will try to take over the resource. In this case it's best to spend some to purchase the tile in question. This will cause some diplomatic outrage, but it's better than losing the resource.
Note that strategic and luxury resources can actually be accessed without being worked by a city - you just need them to be inside your territory, and build the relevant improvement on them. However, there's a catch: the automatic territorial expansion, based on , tends to expand your territory mostly 3 tiles away from the city. It "will" expand further, but only "after" it has encompassed all tiles within 3 tiles of the city (though there are some extremely rare exceptions to this rule). Also, you can't use to purchase a tile which is more than 3 tiles away, which means that if you want to make sure you'll have access to a resource, you had better follow the rules described above.
[Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ5%29](Natural wonders) are also a type of resource as far as founding cities is concerned, so follow the rules above to claim them.
Sea Access.
Any civilization needs access to the ocean - this ensures it will be able to build a navy and explore the world easily, and also conduct sea trade. Additionally, there are plenty of resources to be found on [Coast%20%28Civ5%29](Coast) tiles. Explore the coastline and find a suitable place for a [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) city ASAP. For a city to have access to the sea/ocean, it has to be founded on a tile bordering the water.
Note that not all large bodies of water connect to the world ocean! Some of them are inland seas, which are surrounded on every side by land. Settling cities on their coasts won't do you much good, unless there are important resources to be harvested nearby. If you found a city on a tile that borders two or more non-adjacent [Lakes%20%28Civ5%29](Lake) or Coast tiles, it will function as a canal, allowing naval units to move between them.
Some civilizations have a [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ5%29](starting bias) for Coast. They will start the game already next to the sea, and most of the time their will be on the sea. Those civilizations will benefit from settling cities inland at first.
Fertile and Productive Land.
The next thing you need to pay attention to is the potential of the land which will comprise most of the city's working territory. You need tiles with potential to feed your citizens, and tiles with potential to ensure your city may build things. Also, any potential is welcome, and is very important in the early game.
[Rivers%20%28Civ5%29](River) tiles are extremely useful when choosing a place to settle. It's not by chance that most of the greatest cities in the world are on rivers - they convey many benefits, which include the following in the game:
Coastal cities also enjoy similar benefits, allowing construction of bonus sea buildings like the [Lighthouse%20%28Civ5%29](Lighthouse). Try to ensure access to some sea resources, too.
Strategic Advantage.
Finally, when choosing places to settle, consider military matters. Settling a city on [Hill%20%28Civ5%29](hills) will give it a nice defensive bonus (which directly increases city Combat Strength, so it's actually both a defensive and offensive bonus). But more importantly, observe where your neighbors are trying to settle, and try to block their territorial advancement by founding cities on your own. This may lead to diplomatic protests, but it's better than risking your empire's progress and expansion being stymied and stifled by your neighbors.
It's a good idea to carefully observe the most likely places for settlement between your territory and your closest neighbor's territory, then settle there first. Even if they're farther away from your , you'll gain a tactical advantage by taking over the contested territory and any resources in it before your neighbor does. Later, you can settle places closer to the at your leisure.
Roads.
When building a city, keep in mind that you'll eventually want to connect it to the [Road%20%28Civ5%29](road) network leading to your . Creating a road (or [Railroad%20%28improvement%29%20%28Civ5%29](railroad)) not only helps sustain your empire, but also allows quicker transport for [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers) to build Farms, Mines, and other improvements. When close to a (future) enemy, defensive and offensive units can take positions much sooner. If you are playing as [Roman%20%28Civ5%29](Rome) and have a [Legion%20%28Civ5%29](Legion) or two, you can use them to quickly build a road between your new city and your .