# Shoshone (Civ5)

The Shoshone people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
The Shoshone are a versatile civilization. They excel at quick starts and controlling valuable nearby [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resources) early in the game. Their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) allows newly founded [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) to begin with 8 additional tiles, allowing them to immediately gain access to valuable resources which are two or even three tiles away. The cultural cost of acquiring new tiles does not change, so the Shoshone will have 8 extra tiles which leads to larger borders throughout the entire game. As a result of the extra tiles for their cities, cities can be placed further away from valuable resources, which allows for better, more flexible city placement. With the Shoshone "Great Expanse" ability, just a few cities can often block off entire portions of the world. In addition, all Shoshone [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units) receive a Combat Strength bonus when fighting in their own [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory), allowing them to defend all the land that their civilization has claimed.
The Shoshone gain huge benefits from exploration from their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique unit), the [Pathfinder%20%28Civ5%29](Pathfinder), which replaces the [Scout%20%28Civ5%29](Scout). It is a versatile [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Era) combat unit, with the Scout's bonus along with a [Warrior%20%28Civ5%29](Warrior's) Combat Strength. However, the true strength of the unit lies in its ability to choose a reward when discovering an [Ancient%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruin). This means that the Shoshone may select the most powerful bonuses available from ruins, which allows them to quickly accelerate their early game. The only downside of the Pathfinder is that it has almost double the cost of the standard Scout - a little more expensive than the Warrior. Also, just like a Scout, you can't upgrade the Pathfinder into a unit from a future [Era%20%28Civ5%29](era) (although a bonus from an Ancient Ruin can allow you to get an upgrade).
Finally, the Shoshone also have one of the fastest mounted units in the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era). Their [Comanche%20Riders%20%28Civ5%29](Comanche Riders) are cheaper than the [Cavalry%20%28Civ5%29](Cavalry) they replace and also boast a faster , making them ideal for exploration and conquest.
The combination of the initial land grab upon founding each city and the extraordinary abilities of the Pathfinder allows the Shoshone to get off to very quick starts. With the extra tiles acquired by your first city, you can work the most productive tiles in your surroundings. Additionally, you can plan on getting the best possible Ancient Ruin result. Getting early , and can be especially valuable to your civilization. Note that you cannot pick the same bonus twice in quick succession and bonuses don't appear in the list of Ancient Ruins bonuses before turn 20, which prevents you from getting repeated bonuses of the same type or an early [Pantheons%20%28Civ5%29](pantheon) without any production. Another powerful effect from a ruin is to upgrade your Pathfinders into the much more powerful [Composite%20Bowman%20%28Civ5%29](Composite Bowmen). The Pathfinder's increased strength and access to the same special abilities and special [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions) as the Scout makes it better at fighting off [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians) while exploring, even before you upgrade it, but that bonus is offset by its high cost.
These advantages don't always result in a perfect opening gambit. You still depend on the land you start on, the [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technologies) you need to develop to make use of its resources, and on finding Ancient Ruins before others - after all, you can't choose the benefits if you haven't actually found the ruins! Nevertheless, the Shoshone are one of the civilizations with the best bonuses for the early game available. Their early game bonuses and late game defensive bonuses set them up to be a powerful civilization at any stage in the game!