# Sid Meier's Starships

Sid Meier's Starships is a game created by [Sid%20Meier](Sid Meier) and [Firaxis%20Games](Firaxis Games), released on March 12, 2015. "Starships" is "not" a traditional "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" game but it borrows art assets and narrative elements from "". It centers on space exploration, resource management and allocation, and combat.
Plot.
"Starships" is set in the universe of "Civilization: Beyond Earth" and follows the events of that game. After humanity has colonized the exoplanets, civilizations begin to seek intergalactic/interplanetary contact and trade with others. The game also features cross-connectivity with "Beyond Earth", increasing the replay value and depth of both games.
Gameplay.
"Sid Meier's Starships" is an adventure-driven strategy game where players travel to new planets and complete missions to protect their civilizations from dangerous Space Pirates and hostile opponents. Players command a fleet through a series of missions centered around the different planets in the galaxy. These missions feature dynamically generated maps, a variety of [victory](victory) conditions, and a multitude of enemy types.
At the game's outset, players choose their federation's affinity. The affinity chosen provides an ability and affects ship appearance. Players also choose a leader, based on "Beyond Earth" characters. Each leader comes with its own associated ability. Players can further customize their game by adjusting the game's [Difficulty%20level](difficulty), [map](map) size, and galaxy type.
During the course of the game, players customize their fleet to match individualized combat tactics. Because of the game's modular spaceship design, each ship has many options upgrade options which includes types of weapons on board and shield strength. Players expand the influence of their Federation by gaining the support of the citizens of new planets. Each planet features unique abilities that can be used to enhance the player's fleet and Federation, offering up a variety of improvements to be used against opponents in battle. Cities on planets give players a steady stream of various resources that allow players to purchase different items and abilities for their ships.
Like "Civilization" games, there are multiple paths to victory in "Starships". Victory conditions include expanding to the point where a player commands the majority of the population of the galaxy, and building a set number of wonders.
Beyond Earth Connectivity.
"Starships" can connect with "Beyond Earth" via a player's My 2K account, allowing for a transfer of assets and bonuses. As players meet certain requirements in "Beyond Earth" they unlock certain features in "Starships", and vice versa. They are divided into three types: planet type, hybrid affinity, and missions.
Planet Type Unlocks.
Winning a game of CivBE with each ending will unlock each of these. 
Hybrid Affinity Unlocks.
You need to reach Rank 7 of each main affinity and 3 of a second affinity to unlock the Hybrid Affinity groups (do not need to win, unlocked immediately)