# Sid Meier

Sidney K. "Sid" Meier (born February 24, 1954) is a Canadian programmer and designer of several popular computer strategy games, most notably "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](Civilization)". He has won accolades for his contributions to the computer games industry. Meier is a Director of Creative Development for computer game developer [Firaxis%20Games](Firaxis Games), which he co-founded with [Jeff%20Briggs](Jeff Briggs) and [Brian%20Reynolds](Brian Reynolds) in 1996.
Career.
Sid Meier founded [MicroProse](MicroProse) together with [Bill%20Stealey](Bill Stealey) in 1982. At MicroProse, Meier developed the game series for which he is most widely recognized, "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)". Meier eventually left MicroProse and in 1996 founded Firaxis Games along with veteran gaming executive Jeff Briggs. Today Firaxis makes strategy games, many of which are follow-ups to classic Meier titles, such as "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" and "[Pirates%21%20%281987%29](Pirates!)".
In 1999, Meier became the second person to be inducted into the . The first to receive that honor was from .
Sid Meier is not always the main designer on titles that carry his name. For instance, Brian Reynolds has been credited as the primary designer behind "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)" and "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Sid Meier's Colonization)", while [Soren%20Johnson](Soren Johnson) held that role in "Sid Meier's [Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)". Currently Meier's role appears to be that of a creative director, simultaneously contributing to multiple projects.
Meier worked with a team on a dinosaur themed game starting early 2000, but announced in an online development diary on 24 January 2001 that the game had been shelved. Despite trying various approaches, including turn-based and real-time gameplay, he said he found no way to make the concept fun enough. In August 2005, Meier said "We've been nonstop busy making other games over the past several years, so the dinosaur game remains on the shelf. However, I do love the idea of a dinosaur game and would like to revisit it when I have some time."
Meier currently lives in with his wife, Susan, and son, Ryan. 
Games.
Games that have been developed by Meier span three decades. Some of the more notable titles are listed below in chronological order.