# Sight (Civ6)

 Sight is an attribute of all [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" and its expansions that allows them to reveal activity in nearby [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles). 
Mechanics.
The sight range (or sight radius) of a unit means that it can keep a number of tiles around its current location under "observation." This is achieved by lifting the [fog%20of%20war](fog of war) from the tiles which are being "observed." Thus, all activity in these tiles will be visible to the unit's owner (and sometimes its allies).
Vantage points and the rule of visibility.
This part is dedicated to vantage points and the rule of visibility in "Civilization VI". In other words, it explains why a unit can or cannot see a tile within its sight radius.
The majority of land and [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval units) have a sight range of 2, meaning that they can "see" up to 2 tiles away from their current position, even in the late game. (There are some s which increase this to 3 - see [%23Sight%20bonuses](below).) All [Air%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](air units) have a Sight of at least 4.
[Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers) and certain naval units have a sight range of 3; this helps them better explore the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map). [Observation%20Balloon%20%28Civ6%29](Observation Balloons), [Rocket%20Artillery%20%28Civ6%29](Rocket Artillery), [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies), and [Naturalist%20%28Civ6%29](Naturalists) also have a sight range of 3. The Settler's sight range helps players choose better spots for settling; other units' extended sight range helps them better execute reconnaissance missions, reveal more terrain with less , and spot for any land and naval units with 3 and Sight 2, which cannot fire on targets outside their vantage points even if they are in range. (See [%23Line%20of%20sight%20and%20the%20rule%20of%20ballistics](below).) The [Indian%20%28Civ6%29](Indian) [Varu%20%28Civ6%29](Varu) also has an enhanced Sight of 3.
Note, however, that not all tiles within a unit's sight radius may be visible at all times. The trick is that, quite realistically, sight can be obstructed by elevated [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29](terrain) and certain features: [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills), [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods), [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests), and [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains). The presence of these features within the unit's sight radius will create obstacles, which will affect visibility of certain tiles; when related to the current position of the unit we say that it has (or doesn't have) "line of sight" to these tiles. Units may overcome most line-of-sight obstacles if they stand on a "vantage point" - a tall feature which will allow the unit to see above obstacles. To better understand elevation rules, we may establish that there are four different vertical levels:
Now, with elevation levels clarified, we can establish visibility rules:
Note that, due to the hexagonal tile system in the game, any tile which is more than 1 tile removed from the viewer's position actually has 2 tiles lining it with the center. This makes for some tricky situations when one of these tiles has an obstacle, but the other does not. More on this below.
Line of sight and the rule of ballistics.
This part is dedicated to the line of sight and the rule of ballistics in "Civilization VI". In other words, it explains why a unit with ranged attacks can or cannot hit an enemy unit standing within its . It is worth noting that a unit can only shoot units that are visible, so please check out the previous part about the rule of visibility first.
Sight bonuses.
There are a few ways to increase the sight radii of units: