# Sinbad (Civ6)

Sinbad is a [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29%23Heroes](Hero) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". He is exclusive to the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack).
Strategy.
Like all Hero units, Sinbad's Strength increases with the progression of the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), as shown in the table below.
The yield of Sinbad's Fortunes starts at 200 and increases by 100 per era.
Sinbad is an incredibly powerful Hero who is capable of bringing in a lucrative amount of from exploration. Unlike his fellow Heroes, his power depends greatly on map sizes and settings, as the bigger and more water-dominated the map is, the more ludicrous his ability gets. If you manage to discover a [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](Continent) or a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Wonder) with Sinbad in the Ancient or Classical Era, that 400 means an instant free [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settler) for your empire, and on larger maps, this can be achieved many times just by exploring, something you would have to do in the early game anyway. If you are unlucky with Continent and Natural Wonder discovery, fear not, since Sinbad also has an active ability that allows him to instantly kill a naval unit or clear a Barbarian Camp (or at least, heavily damage them) and gains a whopping amount of that scales into the mid- and late game. Not to mention, his ability can be activated a total of 8 times, the most among Heroes with Charge-based abilities.
Since his abilities do not scale too well into late game (his passive does not scale at all, his active only increases by 100 per era, which is less and less impressive the later it is into the game, and all of his toolkits tie strongly to exploration and clearing Barbarians), you are better off investing your into recalling other Heroes in the mid- and late game. You most likely cannot discover any new Continent and Natural Wonder (Sinbad is bound to water tiles like all other naval units, and his is only 3), and Barbarians will get rarer by eras, so you will have to cause (or accrue warmongering) on other civilizations just to maximize the output from his active, not the best trade for thousands of .
On larger and water-dominated maps, Sinbad should be the number one priority among all Heroes. As you most likely will have a coastal city to recruit him, everyone should go for Sinbad, for he will give you enough to purchase a few free Settlers just from exploring. On land-dominated maps, he is a lot less important, since with his , he cannot see too far into land to discover a lot of Continents and Natural Wonders anyway, so he will have to rely on his active more. Beside the obvious synergy with civilizations that emphasize exploration and maritime activities (the most notable one being [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal)), Sinbad is also a perfect choice for civilizations and leaders that crave in the early game to fulfill their conquest timing, like [Babylonian%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon), who needs a lot of to upgrade their units, and [Matthias%20Corvinus%20%28Civ6%29](Matthias Corvinus), who wants to levy and upgrade [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states)' units.