# Sipahi (Civ5)

Game Info.
[Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](Unique) mounted unit of the [Ottoman%20%28Civ5%29](Ottoman) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization). Replaces the [Lancer%20%28Civ5%29](Lancer). Requires .
Strategy.
The Sipahi works much the same way as the original Lancer, with the additional benefits of greater sight, greater speed, and greater pillaging abilities, which allows Ottoman player to devastate the [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) they're attacking in no time. A single Sipahi unit can invade the [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) of an enemy city in 1-2 moves, then devastate 2-3 [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements) with the rest of its in one turn only! It can then escape by pillaging a couple more improvements, healing the damage it suffered from the city attack in the meantime.
It's important to remember that you have two unique units, which should be used to complement each other on the battlefield. If you attack with your Sipahis first and then launch an assault with [Janissary%20%28Civ5%29](Janissaries), [Cannon%20%28Civ5%29](Cannons), and other units, you are not only likely to lose most of your Sipahis (since they can't fight infantry well), but your other units will not be able to heal from pillaging. It is much better to attack the cities you want to capture with Janissaries and siege units while your Sipahis pillage the improvements around the cities you don't want. This way, your Janissaries can take the cities you want while your Sipahis cripple the enemy infrastructure and economy. If you want all of an enemy's cities, use the Sipahis to take care of any mounted units they are using for defense, since your Sipahis are much better at fighting these units than your Janissaries are.
If you want to make optimal use of your Sipahis, it's also important to remember that their [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions) transfer when they upgrade. It's advisable to upgrade them after you get [Computers%20%28Civ5%29](Computers) and unlock [Helicopter%20Gunship%20%28Civ5%29](Helicopter Gunships), since upgrading them to [Anti-Tank%20Gun%20%28Civ5%29](Anti-Tank Guns) will reduce their mobility and make it much harder to use their improved pillaging effectively. Helicopter Gunships are a whole different story, however, as they can move 6 tiles (since they ignore "all" [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain)) and still have the benefit of pillaging without using .