# Slavic Federation (CivBE)

The Slavic Federation is a civilization in the world of "".
The Slavic Federation is a Pan-Slavic coalition government comprised of [Russian](Russia) and the "Eurasian" countries (as Vadim Kozlov himself affirms). This may mean Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, [Polish](Poland), the Czech Republic, Slovakia and part of the Balkans, or perhaps it includes some non-Slavic Eurasian countries as well. The faction is led by the esteemed former "kosmonaut" [Vadim%20Kozlov%20%28CivBE%29](Vadim Kozlov).
Slavic Strategies.
Base "Beyond Earth".
With bonuses to {{PetroleumBE}} and [Orbitals%20%28CivBE%29](satellite) uptime, Slavic Federation players make the most use out of any satellite unit. In particular, {{HarmonyBE}} players may get the best use out of these passives thanks to their passive resistance and, later on, buffs to [Miasma%20%28CivBE%29](Miasma) working well with the [Miasmic%20Condenser%20%28CivBE%29](Miasmic Condenser) along with keeping a [Rocktopus%20%28CivBE%29](Rocktopus) in orbit for even longer. Anyone planning on making heavy use of satellites, however, benefits greatly from the bonus to {{PetroleumBE}} and satellite orbit time. Those who play around satellites may also wish to invest in Industry Virtues to obtain the [Virtues%20%28CivBE%29%23Industry](Superior Engineering) ability for doubled orbit duration if they don't need to invest Virtues elsewhere.
"Rising Tide".
The Slavic Federation's Personality Trait makes all satellites cost 1 less of "each" of the resources required to construct them, which can be upgraded to a 2-resource reduction. They also receive some free {{PetroleumBE}} and {{TitaniumBE}}, which is needed to launch many satellites. While they seem to have no actual bonuses to orbital units, remember that this is a reduction of "each" resource, so even with a Level 1 Personality Trait, all orbital units except the Rocktopus cost only {{PetroleumBE}}. This is further enhanced at a Level 3 PT, where even [Planet%20Carver%20%28CivBE%29](Planet Carvers) cost only 2 {{PetroleumBE}}. At Level 3, many satellites that used to cost resources also have no resource requirements, such as the [Orbital%20Laser%20%28CivBE%29](Orbital Laser), [Orbital%20Fabricator%20%28CivBE%29](Orbital Fabricator) and [Phasal%20Transporter%20%28CivBE%29](Phasal Transporter). Rocktopi also only cost 1 {{XenomassBE}} at this stage, so going {{HarmonyBE}} is viable as Koslov. Be sure to launch as many domestic orbital units as you can in the early game to boom, such as the [Deep%20Space%20Telescope%20%28CivBE%29](Deep Space Telescope) or [Holomatrix%20%28CivBE%29](Holomatrix), as you will have enough {{PetroleumBE}} to launch any unit in the game at this stage.