# Slaver (CTP1)

The Slaver is a [Stealth%20units%20%28CTP1%29](stealth unit) available early in "". It can capture undefended [Settler%20%28CTP1%29](Settlers) or can capture [Citizen%20%28CTP1%29](citizens) from a [City%20%28CTP1%29](city) that does not have a [City%20Wall%20%28CTP1%29](City Wall). The slave is sent to the nearest city owned by the Slaver's owner and works for half [Rations%20%28CTP1%29](rations).
Summary.
The Slaver can capture slaves (citizens or Settlers) of another well-garrisoned [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20CTP1](Civilization). When stacked with military units, the Slaver can also capture defeated armies and convert the soldiers into slaves. After a successful slave raid, the victims are transported instantly back to the player's nearest city. There the slave labors for reduced [Wages%20%28CTP1%29](wages) and rations. The Slaver is a stealth unit, which allows him to hide from regular armies. Only a select few, such as the [Diplomat%20%28CTP1%29](Diplomat), the [Cleric%20%28CTP1%29](Cleric) or another Slaver can spot a Slaver as he conducts his cruel and inhuman trade.
Great Library entry.
Slavery dates back at least as far as Babylonian times, but the degree of cruelty of the institution has varied widely through time. In the best case, in Babylon or in Athens, the slave filled the role of manservant or aide. In the worst case, the plight of the enslaved was truly terrible. In Roman times, slaves worked until they became weak or old, and then were sold to state mines where work was harder and death certain. Even more horrific, from the 16th to the 19th century, over 15 million Africans were brutally kidnapped and shipped across the Atlantic to the Americas. It was only after the Abolitionist movement and one of America's bloodiest wars that slavery was abolished.