# Slave Labor (CTP2)

 is an [List%20of%20advances%20in%20CTP2](advance) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
Slavery is a troubling development in human history, violating the moral and ethical sensibilities of most people. Nevertheless, empires that choose to bolster their ranks of workers with unwilling labor have the unit. s prey on foreign and capture their citizens as slaves.
 rely on slave laborers to toil in highly dangerous work environments. They increase on the tiles on which they are built.
Great Library entry.
Slavery was an involuntary labor system in which the workers were deprived of a great deal of personal liberties. It existed in many ancient societies, but was rare among primitive peoples, such as hunter-gatherer societies, because those societies lacked the social stratification that was essential to slavery's existence. Primitive societies also lacked the economic surplus necessary to support a slave trade, since one of the aspects of slavery is the notion that slaves are assets by which slave owners prosper.
Although the precise origins of slavery are blurred by the fog of time, the earliest known slavery existed during the Shan dynasty (18th-12th century BC) in China. Korea had a slave population that ranged from a third to a half of the entire population for most of the millennium between the Silla period and the mid-18th century. Slavery also existed in ancient India and the Middle East for much of recorded history. The Vikings often raided other civilizations looking for slaves to trade on the international slave market. It is theorized that slavery was first invented as a system to make better use of criminals, postulating that they were more useful when put to work instead of being killed or eaten. Regardless of its origins, slavery continued to occupy a place in almost every major culture well into the 20th century.