# Slinger (Civ6)

The Slinger is an [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is available without any [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technological) research.
Strategy.
The Slinger is the first ranged unit in the game, and can be trained from the very start. However, it's not very effective - it can only attack adjacent [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), and it is very weak on defense. The best way to use them is from defensible positions ([Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills), [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments), [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers), etc.), because if any melee unit is allowed to attack the Slinger, it doesn't stand a chance. Also, it cannot stay behind your front line, because it doesn't have the range to shoot over them!
Fortunately, Slingers can be cheaply upgraded to [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers) once [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery) is researched. For this reason, you should establish a habit of training at least 3 Slingers every game, despite their ephemeral militaristic relevance. A Slinger costs 35 (equivalent to 140 ) and an Archer costs 60 (240 ), but it takes only 60 to upgrade a Slinger into an Archer, which is an extremely good deal. So why at least 3 Slingers? Not only does it increase the chance you will get the for [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery), but when you upgrade those Slingers into Archers, you will get the for [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery). This technology is crucial in every game, since it unlocks the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman) (a premier military unit in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era)) and [Kilwa%20Kisiwani%20%28Civ6%29](Kilwa Kisiwani), which is one of the best [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders) in the game. Unlocking Machinery a few turns earlier than your opponents can mean a lot, and the Slinger plays an important, though not always obvious, role in it.
Killing a unit with a Slinger triggers the for Archery.