# Social strategy (Civ5)

Introduction.
This article discusses general strategies for developing Social Policies in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It was written for the "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" expansion, [Fall%202013%20patch%20%28Civ5%29](Fall 2013 patch), and because of the frequent and sometimes quite sweeping changes in the Social Policies, it may not be applicable to earlier versions of the game.  
Social Policies represent a crucial part of the abilities of an empire - their bonuses are extremely useful throughout the game. Empires which manage to adopt more Policies for a given amount of turns may easily emerge ahead of the competition, provided the Policies are well-chosen and match the player's chosen civilization and victory path. So, never underestimate a rival focusing on social, instead of military or scientific development!
Acquiring Social Policies.
Social Policies are "bought" via accumulating . Each time you acquire a certain minimum amount of this stat (determined by the number of Policies you already adopted and the number of cities in your empire), you're prompted to spend it on either unlocking a Social Policy tree, or adopting a Policy within one you've already unlocked. Note that most trees can't be unlocked in the beginning of the game - they only become available as you progress to later Eras. Also, all high-level Policies within each tree require adopting other, lower level Policies first - the design of the tree will let you know the exact relation.
Note also that you can't "skip" adopting a Policy (unless you enabled policy saving before starting a game) - the game simply won't let you end your turn. This fact also merits some strategic decisions, mainly in the early game when few trees are unlocked. If, for example, you've completed your initial Social tree and want to adopt next one of the higher level trees (e.g. Patronage or Commerce), you must make sure you've reached the era unlocking that tree "before" acquiring enough  Culture for your next Policy! Else you will be forced to spend a Policy for something that doesn't really fit your strategy. So, plan your Scientific development well - this is what determines when you enter later eras.
Each time you acquire a Social Policy, the amount of  Culture needed to get the next one increases. The exact values seem to vary according to the number of Policies you've already acquired (for example the initial progression is almost geometric, but then after 6-7 Policies it turns percentual), and according to the number of cities belonging to your empire (excluding Puppet cities). The fewer cities you have, the faster you'll be able to adopt new Policies. 
Once you unlock and adopt an [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](Ideology), you will be able to spend your accumulated  Culture on acquiring Ideological Tenets as well as Social Policies. You will have to decide then whether you want to develop your Ideology, or continue developing Social Policies. For more information on this, check [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29](here). 
Some game events allow you to acquire a free Policy or Tenet - this won't affect your accumulated , and won't raise the amount needed for your next "normal" Policy/Tenet.  
As a general rule, the more  Culture you manage to produce with fewer cities, the faster you'll progress socially (meaning that you'll be able to adopt many Policies). Also, keep in mind that in the final phase of the game you'll have to split your social progress with your ideological progress, so analyze really carefully what will benefit your empire more at that point and act accordingly. Usually, Ideological Tenets are more powerful than Social Policies, but sometimes there are exceptions, and some trees are simply too important for specific victory paths to be left hanging. 
General Strategy.
Choosing the right Policies for your civilization and chosen victory path is crucial for success in the game. It could mean the difference between having a set of bonuses which supports your playstyle and helps you advance quicker, and having bonuses which are of almost no use to you and will cause you to lag behind the competition.
Because of the great variety of strategies and means to achieve victory in the game, there are so many possibilities when using Social Policies that it will be impossible to list them all here. Still, there are some things you should consider for the start of the game:
[Tradition%20%28Civ5%29](Tradition).
Tradition enhances general  Population growth (especially in the ) and speeds up development in your first four cities. It's best for empires which will depend on having a large Population but few cities, and probably the best one to start with if you don't want to expand quickly. It is also good for any civilization which is strongly centralized (like the [Roman%20%28Civ5%29](Romans)), because it gives nice bonuses such as faster Population growth, increased generation, and decreased  Unhappiness for citizens in the . It is also considered the most powerful of the starting four by most of the "Civilization" [Reddit](Reddit) players.
Historically, this tree represents aristocratic and feudal traditions, with their centralization, class distinctions, and a tendency to favor a closed, non-expansionist system.
Its opening bonus adds 3  Culture to your , and reduces the amount of accumulated  Culture needed for conquering each successive tile in every city. That means that your borders will be growing really fast, all the way until the end of the game! Add to that the free [Monument%20%28Civ5%29](Monument) from Legalism, and your first four cities will grow their borders for a fraction of the time normally required! The Wonder unlocked, the [Hanging%20Gardens%20%28Civ5%29](Hanging Gardens), is also oriented toward Population growth.
If you want to have large cities early on, you'll want to adopt Oligarchy first and then work your way through the branches it unlocks - their effects are more oriented towards large cities, rather than towards the beginning of the game.
However, if you plan on building a Wonder early on, the first Policy you adopt should be...
The completion bonus of this tree gives you another Population growth boost in your first 4 cities, and also provide a free [Aqueduct%20%28Civ5%29](Aqueduct) in them. For maximum effect, try to obtain it before turn 150, and also try founding four cities before, or at least right after you complete the tree. Also, you get to purchase [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ5%29](Great Engineers) with Faith.
[Liberty%20%28Civ5%29](Liberty).
Liberty helps quicken initial expansion, by helping the establishment of cities and the building of [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) and [Improvement%20%28Civ5%29](improvements) right from the start. Further on it also helps larger empires with more cities thanks to the many per-city bonuses. One of its best features are the free units provided (a [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Worker) and a [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settler)), which will help your early development immensely. Another important highlight is the faster improvement building, which allows you to develop the land quicker and with fewer Workers.
Conceptually, Liberty represents the power of early democracy as means of establishing expansionist countries. In these, society is based on "people's rule" where everyone is "equal" (as opposed to the class system of aristocracy) and has the right to be represented and have a voice in the running of the country.
The tree's unlock bonus provides +1  Culture generation to all cities, including newly founded ones. That means that their borders will grow (albeit slowly) even before you construct cultural buildings in them, which is important. Also, the Wonder unlocked, the [Pyramids%20%28Civ5%29](Pyramids) gives you more free [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Workers), while additionally boosting improvement building speed.
You have to choose carefully the first Policies you want to adopt. There are two options: going for a free Settler early (which means adopting Republic, then Collective Rule), or going for a free Worker first. But having a Worker won't help you a lot unless you have the technologies needed for improvements, so if you're going slow in tech development (or if you were lucky to get culture early), go with the first option. It won't do you much good to have a Worker if all you can build is [Farm%20%28Civ5%29](Farms). And you can always get it as the second Policy you adopt, instead of Collective Rule.
Citizenship also unlocks the other two high-level Policies:
The completion bonus for Liberty - a free Great Person of your choice - is a bit anticlimactic. While this bonus could be very nice in the first 100 turns, its value diminishes later on (when it gets increasingly easy to get Great People), so look to complete the tree early on. The Person you choose should help your empire overcome its weakness in this particular moment - some good choices include a [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Scientist) for improved tech development, or a [Great%20Engineer%20%28Civ5%29](Great Engineer) for a boost in a major city's production. And DO NOT use its one-time boost ability - this is wasteful in the beginning of the game! Also, it might be tempting to choose a Person which is related to a City-State quest, but you should do this only if it will also help your empire's development at that moment. A [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Artist), for example, will rarely be useful in the first 100 turns of a game.
Last, but not least, you can use a Great Engineer to complete an important Wonder instantly, like [Petra%20%28Civ5%29](Petra), [Machu%20Picchu%20%28Civ5%29](Machu Picchu) or the [Borobudur%20%28Civ5%29](Borobudur) as early as 2000 BC. This is the only instant-ability use recommended, and only if the particular Wonder you choose is really important for your future development; otherwise, it's not worth it.
[Honor%20%28Civ5%29](Honor).
Honor enhances your combat abilities throughout the game, especially in the early game and against Barbarians. It is strongly recommended for those attempting a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory) (who should take it as first and main tree), but partially it is also good for everyone that desires a little combat boost. It also rewards an aggressive playstyle throughout the game. 
Conceptually, Honor represents warrior societies such as Japan or Sparta, where being a warrior confers a high social status, but at the same time entails following certain rules in life, instead of simply bullying everyone around. In short, it is not only a means towards defending your lands (or conquering foreign lands).
The unlock bonus is one of the most sweeping bonuses in the early game: +33% Combat Strength against [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](Barbarians) for all units, earns for each Barbarian killed (the exact amount varies according to the unit destroyed), and reveals newly spawned [Encampment%20%28Civ5%29](encampments) in all revealed territories. This "package" is often worth it spending one Social Policy, even if you don't intent to be particularly warlike in the game, because it helps you defeat easier the early Barbarian rushes, clear Encampments for City-State quests and also speeds up your Social development. You can use this unlock bonus in combination with all other opening gambits to help your early game.
There are two distinct paths through the tree:
The Wonder unlocked, the [Statue%20of%20Zeus%20%28Civ5%29](Statue of Zeus), isn't that exciting unless you really intend to pursue a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory), as it gives a bonus when attacking cities.
The end bonus of the tree gives you  Gold per each enemy unit killed, including Barbarians. This becomes the more useful the more aggressive your nation is, and it's a great boon when pursuing a Domination victory, where it is often able to replace the lost from not being able to establish [Trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](Trade routes) due to your being at war with most of your neighbors. So in this case, try completing the tree as early as possible, before or during your first big offensive. Also, you'll be able to purchase [Great%20general%20%28Civ5%29](Great Generals) with from the Industrial Era on.
[Piety%20%28Civ5%29](Piety).
Piety was initially the -oriented tree, but in the expansions it was gradually shifted towards Religion and production. In "" the tree becomes available right from the start (before it was only unlockable in the Classical Era), which makes it a viable choice for a starting Social Policy tree. Choose it so if your civilization has features related to Religion, and if you plan on using Religion as a serious weapon in the game. Also, consider developing it parallel with another starting Social tree, because its bonuses are very specifically religion-oriented. The problem is that you don't have a Religion right from the start of the game, so Policies like [Religious%20Tolerance%20%28Civ5%29](Religious Tolerance) and [Reformation%20%28Civ5%29](Reformation) will be completely useless until you either develop one, or some neighbor spreads their religion to your cities. In fact, of all Policies in this tree only the opening bonus and [Organized%20Religion%20%28Civ5%29](Organized Religion) are applicable right away (assuming you built a [Shrine%20%28Civ5%29](Shrine) quickly in your cities) - the others become useful only towards the middle game.
So, while enhancing your Religion, Policies from the Piety tree might actually hinder your development otherwise (because you're not getting other, more useful bonuses). Still, it's all a matter of ability - Religion is in itself a system of bonuses, and developing it early not only lets you use all these bonuses, but also lets you choose from a greater pool of available Beliefs and gives you a greater chance to spread it to your neighbors. If used right, this tree combined with well-chosen Beliefs will boost your development and establish you as a regional power even if you've done nothing else of note until that moment.
Conceptually, it represents theocratic societies centered on Religion and implementing their social systems around and via Religion (e.g. implementing laws based on religious beliefs). Examples here include some kingdoms in Medieval Europe, and many Islamic countries ruled by religious law.
Its opening bonus lets you build [Shrine%20%28Civ5%29](Shrines) and [Temple%20%28Civ5%29](Temples) twice as fast, which is really helpful for jump-starting your production. It also unlocks the [Great%20Mosque%20of%20Djenne%20%28Civ5%29](Great Mosque of Djenne) Wonder, which is quite possibly the most useful of the religious Wonders because of the extra "Spread Religion" ability it confers to all Missionaries and Prophets born in that city. As a result, you'll have more to spend and greater ability to spread your Religion.
The completion bonus of the tree adds +3  Culture production to Holy Sites, which now produce a total of 6  Faith, 3  Gold and 3  Culture, besides the natural terrain yield. Needless to say, Holy Sites all of a sudden become one of the most useful Great Person improvements in the game! So, keeping that in mind, you should use your [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ5%29](Great Prophets) exclusively for making Holy Sites, even before you complete the tree. The second effect is a free Prophet, which can be extremely useful if you time it right. You can use this Prophet to Enhance your Religion, while spending the  Faith you've accumulated after founding it on a [Missionary%20%28Civ5%29](Missionary) to spread it, or a religious building. If, for some reason, you've already enhanced your religion, make a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ5%29](Holy Site) to start reaping its many benefits!
[Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage).
Patronage is "the" tree for those preferring to form alliances with [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-States), and a must for those attempting a [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory). However, its main purpose, improving your ability to influence City-States, combines well with all gameplay styles and empire types, so the tree can be used as a nice addition to all others, either partially or fully completed. Its first Policies, for example, are useful throughout the game and may be well worth the Social points spent for a player who knows how to make use of the bonuses of City-States. Also, keep in mind that Patronage is more useful the more City-State allies you have - try to focus on acquiring more if you develop the tree.
It becomes available in the Classical Era, so it should be your second or even third Social Policy tree.
Conceptually Patronage represents the diplomatically-oriented society, which likes maintaining close relations with all other political entities and engages in all sorts of peaceful interchange with them (rather than invasion interchange:). 
The unlock bonus slows down degradation of City-State influence by 25% (or speeds up recovery from negative influence), so take it as soon as you can - it will ensure you keep Friends and Allies longer without having to do anything. The Wonder unlocked is the [Forbidden%20Palace%20%28Civ5%29](Forbidden Palace), a key Wonder for Diplomatic victory and a good way to keep in your empire.
The final bonus of Patronage is very interesting - all City-State allies give you Great People from time to time. This works much the same way as Militaristic City-States' unit gifts, but the gift rate is lower, and the Great Person gifted - completely random (no relation to the type of City-State giving it). Thanks to this, your empire will be able to use more Great People than others, and if used wisely, they could give you great advantage!  
[Aesthetics%20%28Civ5%29](Aesthetics).
Aesthetics is a new tree introduced in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" as a replacement for the Culturally-oriented Piety tree. It revolves around the and boosts, and is thus practically required for those attempting a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory), although not very useful for other players. Conceptually, it represents an artistically-oriented society, where Culture and artistic expression is valued much more than normal, even to the point of being heavily sponsored by the state. It becomes available in the Classical Era.
The unlock bonus of Aesthetics gives your [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Artists), [Great%20writer%20%28Civ5%29](Writers) and [Great%20musician%20%28Civ5%29](Musicians)' generation a 25% boost, so you should adopt it only AFTER you've started producing those. Also, the [Uffizi%20%28Civ5%29](Uffizi) Wonder is unlocked, which is great for Tourism development (although its Theming bonus is quite tricky to unlock).
The two basic Policies here are both required for progressing further down the tree, so no strategy involved here.
The finishing bonus of the tree doubles the [Theming%20bonus%20%28Civ5%29](Theming bonuses) of all buildings that have it (that means [Museum%20%28Civ5%29](Museums) and World Wonders). That is again a great boost to your tourism, becoming more effective the more of these buildings you have, so race towards those special Wonders like the [Louvre%20%28Civ5%29](Louvre) and [Broadway%20%28Civ5%29](Broadway)! Also, you get to buy all artistically-oriented Great People with  Faith from the Industrial Era on, which is also awesome.
[Commerce%20%28Civ5%29](Commerce).
Commerce was initially designed to include both -boosting and sea-oriented benefits, but in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" it was redesigned to concentrate entirely on Land Trade and output. Conceptually it represents a trade-oriented society, where the state adopts protectionist policies and helps trade in any way they can (even to allowing free mercenary companies to replace regular troops).
The tree is now available in the Medieval Era and can be unlocked quickly by rushing [Guilds%20%28Civ5%29](Guilds); however it offers little in the early game. It is, however, good for all sorts of empires later on, because everyone could use some extra  Gold in this game for all sorts of different purposes. The only exception is possibly Domination-oriented empires which won't have many possibilities for trade (being at war with about everyone). Adopt it as a second main tree, or a complimentary third tree right before you start developing your Ideology.
The unlock bonus increases  Gold output in the Capital by 25%, which could turn out to be a major boost if your Capital produces lots of Gold (for example, if you have earlier Wonders helping production, like the [Colossus%20%28Civ5%29](Colossus) and/or lots of Trade Routes from/to it). If this is the case, don't hesitate to unlock the tree as early as you can, because you'll benefit greatly from it. The Wonder unlocked is the [Big%20Ben%20%28Civ5%29](Big Ben), which also benefits greatly from  Gold production.
In this tree you can choose two distinct paths: Mercenary army -&gt; Mercantilism; or Wagon Trains -&gt; Entrepreneurship. The first option has more long-term benefits, including a brand new military unit, while the second offers more immediate benefits for your treasury. Here are the details:
The finishing bonus of this tree upgrades [Trading%20post%20%28Civ5%29](Trading Posts) with an additional 1 potential. When combined with the [Economics%20%28Civ5%29](Economics) tech, they start providing +3 ! You should start filling your free terrain with them ASAP. Also, you now get to purchase [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ5%29](Great Merchants) with .  
[Exploration%20%28Civ5%29](Exploration).
Exploration is a new tree introduced in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)", which is designed primarily to enhance [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) cities and sea trade. Thus all Civilizations with many coastal cities benefit greatly from it, regardless of their strategic goals. Still, seekers of a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory) can benefit greatly from this tree, both because of the Wonder unlocked, and because of its finishing bonus. Like Commerce, it is available from the Medieval Era, and thus is great for a second or third Social Policy choice.
Conceptually, Exploration represents the traditions of the great maritime nations such as Spain and England, which develop exclusively sea travel, overseas exploration and trade.
Unlocking the tree gives +1 movement to all Naval units, and additional +1 Sight for Combat Ships. Combine this with the similar effect of the [Great%20Lighthouse%20%28Civ5%29](Great Lighthouse) to get the most mobile navy ever! For greatest effect, try developing Deep Ocean travel capabilities first, otherwise your navies are a bit constrained in the coastal waters. Also, unlocks the [Louvre%20%28Civ5%29](Louvre), which makes this tree also important for seekers of a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory).
The ability to see Hidden Antiquity Sites may not sound all that interesting, but it can be surprisingly useful. With this bonus active, you'll be able to see secret sites that other nations that haven't completed this tree can't see and thus can't use! Besides, since the last patch, they are the only sites that grant unique Artifact-like objects which can be used in all these Great Work of Writing slots which usually remain empty at the end phase of the game! This is a major advantage for those seeking a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory), so start producing [Archaeologist%20%28Civ5%29](Archaeologists) and putting them to work as soon as you complete the tree. You also get to purchase [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ5%29](Great Admirals) with , thanks to which you can have multiple Admirals with the same fleet and finally use their Repair Fleet ability!
[Rationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Rationalism).
Rationalism is the last Cultural tree available during the Renaissance Era. It is designed to boost production in a variety of ways, and as such is a must for those attempting a [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](science victory). It is also great as means of speeding up general tech development, but because it becomes available relatively late, developing it might interfere with the development of an Ideology. At this stage of the game Policies cost quite a bit of already, and you should be prioritizing your Ideology; still, if you have no Ideology yet and you're in desperate need of speeding up your Scientific research, consider taking 2-3 Policies from this tree (as per the first progression option, which is detailed below).
Historically Rationalism represents the great shift in cultural priorities in the Renaissance from generalized and idealized entities like State and God to the singular Human and his rational approach to the world. This caused a veritable historic revolution in society and is represented here through its greatest impact: Science advancement.
The unlock bonus of the tree increases output for the empire while is positive - a great boon and a no-brainer. The Wonder unlocked is the [Porcelain%20Tower%20%28Civ5%29](Porcelain Tower), which is both a booster to your [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Scientist) generation in that city and the utility of research agreements (plus a free Great Scientist). It makes a great combo with the bonus from Scientific Revolution.
You have the choice of taking two distinct paths through the tree: Secularism -&gt; Free Thought -&gt; Scientific Revolution, for an immediate boost to  Science output, or Humanism -&gt; Sovereignty, for a more long-term general benefit. Both are well separated, unlike other trees where the last Policy/Policies usually require (almost) all the rest. 
The finishing bonus of Rationalism gives you a free Technology, which could be really useful if you time it right, or of almost no use. Also, you get to purchase [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Scientists) with , which is actually much more useful in the long term.  