# Soothsayer (Civ6)

The Soothsayer is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Support](support unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is exclusive to the [Apocalypse%20%28Civ6%29](Apocalypse) [Game%20Mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Maya%20%26amp%3B%20Gran%20Colombia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Maya &amp; Gran Colombia Pack). It can only be purchased with .
Promotions.
Soothsayers get one random promotion by getting a Gold or Silver Tier reward from the [Appease%20the%20Gods%20%28Civ6%29](Appease the Gods) competition.
Strategy.
Soothsayers are quite handy for creating misfortune for rival nations without the action being traced back to you, and without a single Soothsayer even having to cross their borders. For example, placing a Soothsayer beside a [River%20%28Civ6%29](river) (ideally on a [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains) tile) that one or more rivals have cities on or near, and triggering its ability will create a [Flood%20%28Civ6%29%23River%20floods](flood) that will generally devastate the area around those cities. The flood will also damage City Centers that don't have defenses or other protection against such disasters, making those cities easier to conquer. However, the flood will also damage your cities, so you may want to reconsider causing a flood if you have many valuable cities on the river you are attempting to flood. 
Additionally, a less offensive possible use for this ability lies in the unexpected synergy it has with the [Great%20Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Great Bath), thanks to being able to more or less create floods on demand for whichever of your cities hosts this wonder. However, it should be noted that the floods caused by Soothsayers will not fertilize tiles.
[Forest%20Fire%20%28Civ6%29](Forest Fires) caused by Soothsayers are the only disasters that can fertilize the land. Use them in heavily forested areas that you plan to settle later on. Be wary of starting a fire that will spread to your cities as you will lose 1 population for every affected tile. Cities with [Preserve%20%28Civ6%29](Preserves) and [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks) are especially vulnerable.
If you have a lot of coastal cities with lowland tiles you might want to avoid overusing Soothsayers due to their climate change impact, at least until you have access to [Flood%20Barrier%20%28Civ6%29](Flood Barriers).
While is it tempting to keep 1 charge Soothsayer units around to receive more promotions from the [Appease%20the%20Gods%20%28Civ6%29](Appease the Gods) [Competition%20%28Civ6%29](Competition) their high maintenance cost might become a burden to your economy.
Bugs.
Soothsayers are missing their support unit classification. For this reason, they are unaffected by modifiers that affect support units, such as the [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norwegian) and [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori) [List%20of%20civilization%20abilities%20in%20Civ6](civilization abilities).