# Soundtrack (Civ6)

The soundtrack of "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" was written and orchestrated primarily by [Geoff%20Knorr](Geoff Knorr), who was assisted by [Roland%20Rizzo](Roland Rizzo), [Griffin%20Cohen](Griffin Cohen), and [Phill%20Boucher](Phill Boucher). The themes of each [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) are played as different variations of the same theme throughout the [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras), with simple single instrument melodies in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) turning into modern compositions by the [Atomic%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Atomic Era), symbolizing the evolution and growth of one's civilization throughout the ages.
Main Theme.
[Christopher%20Tin](Christopher Tin), composer of the Grammy winning "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" song "[Baba%20Yetu](Baba Yetu)", wrote "[Sogno%20di%20Volare](Sogno di Volare)" (translated as "The Dream of Flight"), the main theme of "Civilization VI". The theme was written to capture the spirit of exploration not only in "seeking new lands, but also the mental exploration of expanding the frontiers of science and philosophy". Tin premiered the work at a London concert in July 2016.
Game Soundtrack.
This is the soundtrack of "Civilization VI" as released on [YouTube](YouTube) by [Firaxis%20Games](Firaxis). The main theme, "Sogno di Volare", is not found in this soundtrack. The soundtrack when purchased from digital music distributors such as [https%3A//itunes.apple.com/us/album/sid-meiers-civilization-vi/id1167296868](iTunes) or [https%3A//www.amazon.com/Meiers-Civilization-Original-Game-Soundtrack/dp/B01MDRE3HQ/ref%3Dpd_rhf_ee_s_cp_7%3F_encoding%3DUTF8%26amp%3Bpd_rd_i%3DB01MDRE3HQ%26amp%3Bpd_rd_r%3DXAR3AJT5K99HWX6WW4TZ%26amp%3Bpd_rd_w%3DNufnv%26amp%3Bpd_rd_wg%3DVotlS%26amp%3Bpsc%3D1%26amp%3BrefRID%3DXAR3AJT5K99HWX6WW4TZ](Amazon.com) only includes 38 of the 76 tracks.
"Rise and Fall" Soundtrack.
The official "" expansion soundtrack is found on [https%3A//www.youtube.com/watch%3Fv%3Dw0cGES2rcDE](YouTube).
"Gathering Storm" Soundtrack.
Unlike the [vanilla](vanilla) game and the "Rise and Fall" expansion, the whole soundtrack for "" was not posted in its entirety on the "Civilization" YouTube Page. Unofficial copies can still be found on YouTube, and the official soundtrack is on sale on sites such as [https%3A//itunes.apple.com/us/album/civilization-vi-gathering-storm-original-game-soundtrack/1454035820%3Fapp%3Ditunes%26amp%3Bign-mpt%3Duo%253D4](iTunes) or [https%3A//www.amazon.com/dp/B07NZ9MDWF](Amazon Music). [https%3A//civilizationvithegatheringstorm.bandcamp.com/](This) version is what the table below is based off.
Ambient Music.
Several hours of Ambient music are found in the game. These additional tracks can be found in [https%3A//www.youtube.com/playlist%3Flist%3DPLh4Eme5gACZGDVGh-unzj0p70NiADSdY0](this playlist). (Please note that the tracks in the above playlist are not licensed and/or officially distributed by any of the publishers of "Sid Meier's Civilization VI".)