# Spanish (Civ5)

The Spanish people represent a [DLC%20%28Civ5%29](DLC) [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) for "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" that was released in December 2010 along with the [Incan%20%28Civ5%29](Inca) and the [Conquest%20of%20the%20New%20World%20%28Civ5%29](Conquest of the New World) [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario). They were included again in "".
Strategy.
The Spanish are the masters of exploration. They receive 100 bonus for discovering a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ5%29](natural wonder), which goes up to a whopping 500 if they were the first to discover it, creating an advantage for the early game. Spain also gets double for discovering a natural wonder. Furthermore, the tile yields from natural wonders are doubled, which makes them very potent early sources of , , and - yet another great advantage in the early game. Finally, the bonuses from the One with Nature [Religion%20%28Civ5%29%23Pantheons](pantheon) and the Natural Heritage Sites [Resolutions%20%28Civ5%29](resolution) are doubled as well, allowing the Spanish to reap some of the benefits of their discoveries in the later [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras).
Later in the game they gain access to the [Conquistador%20%28Civ5%29](Conquistador) - arguably the best scouting [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](unit) in the game - which can not only see far and move rapidly on land, but is also capable of settling [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) on islands or other continents! Research [Astronomy%20%28Civ5%29](Astronomy) ASAP and send them across the seas to literally conquer the New World - first scouting it, then immediately settling cities in the locations left unsettled by the other civilizations.
To use best the advantages of this civilization, produce 2-3 [Scout%20%28Civ5%29](Scouts) immediately after founding your , then send them in search of natural wonders. If there are any near your starting location, settle cities near them immediately to take advantage of their exceptional output, not found normally on the land.