# Spanish (Civ3)

The Spanish are a playable [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20Civ3](civilization) in the "" expansion pack of "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)". They are led by [Isabella%20%28Civ3%29](Isabella).
Civilopedia entry.
In "Civilization III: Play the World", the Spanish are considered a [Commercial%20%28Civ3%29](Commercial) and [Religious%20%28Civ3%29](Religious) civilization, therefore, they start with [Alphabet%20%28Civ3%29](Alphabet) and [Ceremonial%20Burial%20%28Civ3%29](Ceremonial Burial) and have significant bonuses to cultural and commercial activities.
Unique Unit: the Conquistador.
Following Columbus, a Spanish military group known as Los Conquistadores, 'The Conquerors', were directed by Hernan Cortes to the New World with the soul purpose of seeking out new frontiers and riches in the unknown. The Conquistadores undertook their expeditions in the vast landmasses of the Americas at their own expense, risking their lives without aid from the Spanish royalty. Horses adorned with many bells enabled the Conquistadores to launch indomitable offenses against the American Indian natives who had never seen a horse before the arrival of the Conquistadores. Spanish-Conquistador conquests included campaigns in Guatemala, Peru, Cuzco, Columbia, Chile, the Bay of Honduras, and the Pacific Coastal regions.
A Spanish city must have [Horses%20%28Civ3%29](horses) to build a Conquistador. They replace the [Explorer%20%28Civ3%29](Explorer) and are fast, military scouts that treat all terrain as if it were a road.