# Stack

A stack refers to multiple [unit](unit)s occupying a single [tile](tile). Stacking features in earlier "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games, spin-offs, and derivative properties, with the exact mechanics varying by title. During [combat](combat), a single unit defends on behalf of the stack, selected based on multiple factors within the game rules. Stacked combine their output when given the same order, enabling [tile%20improvement](tile improvement)s to be completed faster.
In "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](Sid Meier's Civilization)", "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)", and "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Sid Meier's Colonization)", units can be stacked theoretically infinitely. However, loss in combat results in the [Collateral%20damage](destruction of the entire defending stack) when not stationed in a [city](city) or [Fortress](Fortress). Stacks in the field cannot be targeted for [espionage](espionage).
"[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)" adopts the framework of the original games, but modifies to a percent of defending [Unit%20%28SMAC%29](units') [hit%20points](hit points), rather than a guaranteed "stack wipe".
Stacks in "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)" and the [Civilization%20Revolution%20games]("Civilization Revolution" games) are not subject to collateral damage. Attacks (including [Bombard%20%28Civ3%29](bombardment)) target only the immediate defender, leaving the rest of the stack unscathed.
"[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" and "" combine aspects of both "Civ III" and "Alpha Centauri": [Siege%20weapon%20%28Civ4%29](siege units) and units with the [Flank%20attack%20%28Civ4%29](flanking) attribute can inflict [Collateral%20damage%20%28Civ4%29](collateral damage) on some or all of the stack; combat is otherwise conducted one-on-one.
Beginning in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", stacking is replaced with "[one%20unit%20per%20tile](one unit per tile)" (1UPT) as part of a summary redesign of the combat system, with limited stacking permitted between [Military%20unit](military) and [civilian%20unit](civilian unit)s.