# Statue of Liberty (Civ6)

The Statue of Liberty is an in "". It must be built on [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) adjacent to land and a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor). It cannot be built on a [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake).
Strategy.
In "Rise and Fall", the Statue of Liberty can theoretically be of some use when built in a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) on a foreign [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent) (perhaps by expending [Isidore%20of%20Miletus%20%28Civ6%29](Isidore of Miletus), [Filippo%20Brunelleschi%20%28Civ6%29](Filippo Brunelleschi), or [Gustave%20Eiffel%20%28Civ6%29](Gustave Eiffel)) and using the two [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers) it provides to found cities nearby without fear of [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) issues. In practice, however, this wonder is all but useless. When the Industrial Era comes, open land is scarce, except for subpar spaces like on [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) or [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow), and expansion should no longer be a priority at this point - a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization's) main objective in this [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era) is to reinforce its core territory and follow its chosen path to [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory). Having two new cities that are far away from the heart of your empire and require time and effort (or [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) with [Contractor%20%28Civ6%29](Contractor) and a large investment) to develop may actually do more harm than good. Worse still, the bonus to Loyalty can easily backfire if the city with this wonder gets captured, as it will grant full Loyalty to your opponent and eliminate any chance of flipping the captured city back to your control. Since this bonus applies to every city within 6 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), building the Statue of Liberty is an invitation for your opponents to invade you, especially when playing against other people in a [multiplayer](multiplayer) game. There are practically no circumstances under which you should build this wonder in "Rise and Fall", since it provides minimal benefits that can be turned against you if it falls into enemy hands. If you spot an opponent who's foolish enough to build this, prepare for your conquest without any fear of Loyalty issues.
After receiving a much-needed change in the "" expansion, the Statue of Liberty is valuable for every player that aims for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory). Since sources of Diplomatic Victory Points are very limited in number (e.g., [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) and [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics) that everyone can research) and waiting every 30 turns for a [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress) session (which doesn't guarantee you points even when you have a massive generation of ) is agonizing, this wonder can really set you set you apart from the other Diplomatic Victory seekers. It still carries over its primary weakness of attracting foreign military invasions, but the 4 Diplomatic Victory Points it awards are now the main reason to build the Statue of Liberty, and they are awarded only to the player who completes it - other players don't get the points for capturing the city in which it was built. If you aren't going for a Diplomatic Victory, ignore it, because the Loyalty "bonus" makes it counterproductive.
Regarding how the Statue of Liberty's Loyalty "bonus" interacts with the new changes to Loyalty flipping, please read [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29%23Phoenicia%20and%20their%20Loyalty%20effects](here), as this effect functions exactly the same as Phoenicia's [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability).