# Statue of Zeus (Civ6)

The Statue of Zeus is a [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on flat land adjacent to an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) with a [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks).
Strategy.
The most useful benefit of the Statue of Zeus is 50% towards [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Anti-cavalry](anti-cavalry units) anywhere in your empire for the rest of the game. Additionally, it saves you 40 total on the [Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Archers), [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearmen), and [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Ram) (400 versus 440 for all 7). The wonder makes anti-cavalry units more appealing by making them a lot cheaper, especially when you can stack the bonus with [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards), so it goes well with aggressive [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders)/[Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) that favor the use of anti-cavalry or have a strong preference for quantity over quality - most notably [Gorgo%20%28Civ6%29](Gorgo), [Shaka%20%28Civ6%29](Shaka), [Ambiorix%20%28Civ6%29](Ambiorix), and [Macedonian%20%28Civ6%29](Macedon).
When playing as Gorgo, you instantly gain three [Hoplite%20%28Civ6%29](Hoplites) and halve the cost of all future Hoplites when you build the Statue of Zeus, allowing you to begin swarming your neighbors. Keep in mind, though, that the Hoplite is the weakest link in the Greek arsenal, and Hoplites/Spearmen lose relevance very quickly. Once this happens, Gorgo has absolutely no incentive to use anti-cavalry units over [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Melee](melee units), so this wonder isn't a great long-term investment for Gorgo.
Shaka is probably the only leader who would want to go out of their way to build the Statue of Zeus, with which he can produce his already-cheap [Impi%20%28Civ6%29](Impi) even faster. This bonus also applies to producing the [Unit%20%28Civ6%29%23Combining%20units](Corps and Armies) the [Zulu%20%28Civ6%29](Zulus) can access long before anyone else.
Ambiorix's Combat Strength bonus applies to anti-cavalry units and he generally prefers quantity to quality, so cheap units equal good units in his book. Besides, the seven free units granted upon completing the Statue of Zeus grant Ambiorix 88 , which is about two-thirds of a free [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) in this [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era).
Macedon's [Basilikoi%20Paides%20%28Civ6%29](Basilikoi Paides) will give you a burst of 110 when the Statue of Zeus is completed. Furthermore, if you want to take Macedon down a -focused route on the back of the Basilikoi Paides, this wonder is quite valuable. The extra from the wonder combined with the appropriate policy cards can make anti-cavalry units incredibly cheap, and Macedon can produce them en masse and delete the units right after for the sole purpose of generating huge bursts of . This may be a bit less useful if you're playing a highly militaristic game as Macedon since they don't have a strong preference for anti-cavalry units, but cheap is always lovely.