# Stave Church (Civ6)

The Stave Church is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Norwegian%20%28Civ6%29](Norwegian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and replaces the [Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Temple).
Strategy.
The Stave Church has two main bonuses over the standard Temple: first, it raises Holy Site's [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) from Woods from 0.5 to 1.5 per Woods tile; second: it provides 1 to every Coastal [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource). The second bonus is much more important since is the most valuable yield in the game, so make sure you build Holy Sites in every single coastal city you have in your empire. If you are playing as religious Norwegians, the bonus presents an interesting trade-off. Holy Sites mainly gain adjacency bonuses from Mountains and Woods (they technically can gain major bonuses from Natural Wonders as well, but tiles next to Natural Wonders often have such high yields and/or high Appeal that you want to reserve them for [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks), [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhoods) or [Seaside%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Seaside Resorts)). Mountains give standard adjacency bonus and Woods give minor bonus. By virtue of the Stave Church you would want to prioritize Woods over Mountains, meaning you have to push back your early generation if you truly want extra out of this building. Considering a Religious Victory has a more narrow time window than other victory conditions, this might not be the most ideal. However, it gives you a bit more flexibility than other empires, since now you can save your Mountains for your [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses) and Woods for your Holy Sites. It has great synergy with the [God%20of%20the%20Sea%20%28Civ6%29](God of the Sea) [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) and [Auckland%20%28Civ6%29](Auckland) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state), so aim for these two targets and all of your coastal cities will turn into bustling industrial hubs.
The ability to consistently get an extremely high adjacency bonus means that the Work Ethic follower belief should be a high priority. This adjacency bonus can be further bolstered if you have some Holy Sites in the arctic regions and the [Dance%20of%20the%20Aurora%20%28Civ6%29](Dance of the Aurora) pantheon. A Holy Site surrounded by [Tundra%20%28Civ6%29](Tundra) Woods, combined with Dance of the Aurora, the Stave Church, Work Ethic, the [Hildegard%20of%20Bingen%20%28Civ6%29](Hildegard of Bingen), and the Scripture policy card can help one of your Holy Sites generate an absurd amount of , and very early into the game.