# Stonehenge (Civ6)

Stonehenge is an in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on flat land adjacent to .
Strategy.
Stonehenge is one of the very first wonders that becomes available, being possible to build after researching only one [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology). It is an excellent wonder to build if [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) is an integral part of your strategy: research [Astrology%20%28Civ6%29](Astrology), then build Stonehenge instead of a Holy Site and use the bonus and the free [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ6%29](Great Prophet) to gain an early advantage over your less pious opponents. is a relatively easy [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource) to find, so you should have little trouble founding a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) in a place where Stonehenge can be built. However, this effort is completely counterproductive if you don't prioritize religion - you can use the first turns to make many more useful things, such as [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scouts), [Military%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](military units), or a [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument).
On higher [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty levels), building this wonder becomes next to impossible. It is high on the priority list of the [AI](AI), and they will try to build it whenever they have access to , adding early religion to the and bonuses and additional [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) they receive at the start of the game. In short, the only way to beat the AI to Stonehenge is a combination of great skill, and luck both in your starting position (you "must" have close to it, not to mention strong potential) and in your accessing random bonuses from [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Villages) and from meeting [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). Most of the time it's simply not worth the effort, as it will greatly delay your general development.
If you are ineligible to receive a Great Prophet when you complete Stonehenge (i.e., you are playing as [Mvemba%20a%20Nzinga%20%28Civ6%29](Mvemba a Nzinga) or have founded a religion, or all available Great Prophets have been earned), you will receive an [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostle) instead. In the highly unlikely event that you already have a Great Prophet but have not yet founded a religion when you complete Stonehenge, you will not receive a unit.
If you do not have a Holy Site when founding your religion at Stonehenge, the 8 religious that is normally generated by your religion's Holy City is not lost. Your first Holy Site will become the Holy City and start applying religious pressure.