# Street Carnival (Civ6)

The Street Carnival is a unique of the [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazilian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Street Carnival:
Strategy.
While it may at first appear to be very underwhelming, the Street Carnival is actually an incredibly versatile district that can keep up with a city's need for and Great People points. +2 rather than +1 and being 50% cheaper than the default Entertainment Complex means that even the newest cities can build them quickly and have their needs taken care of for a long time. If you come to think of it, it is a four times more effective entertainment complex, since it has half the cost and double amenities. 
The Carnival Project provides +1 additional while developed, allowing from [Resources%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury%20Resources](Luxury Resources) to be given out to other cities that may need them more. The Carnival Project earns , , , , and points upon completion. The , , and points given are the same as if one had gained them through [Theater%20Square%20Performances%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square Performances); and and points are half as much given if one had gained them through [Industrial%20Zone%20Projects%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone Projects) or [Commercial%20Hub%20Investment%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub Investments). This makes it completely eclipse the [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square) project, which becomes redundant for anything other than gaining .
Note that since "Rise and Fall "the Street Carnival gives access to two different projects, which makes it even more versatile. You can easily implement the Loyalty push strategy with it, because it is much cheaper to build than a normal [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex), and Brazil would really benefit from it anyway. 