# Submarine (Civ6)

The Submarine is a [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Naval%20raider](naval raider unit) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It upgrades from the (or its replacements).
In the "" expansion, the Submarine requires 1 to train and 1 per turn to maintain.
Strategy.
Unlike in the real world, the Submarine in "Civilization VI" has a rather limited scope of use, and will often be ignored throughout the game for the following reasons:
In the expansions, there is one situation in which you may want to put a higher priority on building Submarines. If you're in a [Dark%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Dark Age) and have slotted [Letters%20of%20Marque%20%28Civ6%29](Letters of Marque), all your naval raider units will have +2 and you'll receive a 100% bonus toward training them. This will make your Submarines faster than Destroyers and just as fast as Battleships, and possibly allow you to train enough of them to achieve naval dominance (especially if they earn the Homing Torpedoes, [Silent%20Running%20%28Civ6%29](Silent Running), and Wolfpack promotions, which will allow them to severely damage or destroy opponents' ships and retreat before they can react). Once you unlock [Telecommunications%20%28Civ6%29](Telecommunications) and upgrade your Submarines to [Nuclear%20Submarine%20%28Civ6%29](Nuclear Submarines), you'll have an even more pronounced advantage. This is really helpful when you are invaded by a naval powerhouse, since as mentioned above, the purpose of Naval Raiders at this point is to kill as many enemy ships as possible, so they work much better defending since you can control how many Submarines you want by estimating the invading naval power. In offensive missions, sometimes you waste a lot of building Submarines when the enemy does not really have a big defending navy, and we already know Submarines are much worse at sieging than Battleships.
Note that, unlike in "Civilization V", Submarines cannot enter [Ice%20%28Civ6%29](Ice) tiles.