# Suguba (Civ6)

The Suguba is a unique of the [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Malian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It replaces the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Suguba:
Strategy.
This unique district is similar to the [Hansa%20%28Civ6%29](Hansa) and can be placed in the same way. If you found your cities only 4 tiles apart, you can easily place each Suguba between two Holy Sites and receive a +5 bonus (+2 from each Holy Site and +1 from having two adjacent districts). Place them on riverbanks for even better results. The guaranteed high adjacency bonus of the Suguba makes Mali one of the few civilizations that can truly make use of Free Inquiry dedication in Classical or Medieval Era, granting a huge amount of . Of course, this dedication should only be chosen if you are in a Heroic Age, since in almost every circumstance, Monumentality is the better choice in the early eras. The Suguba is the backbone of the Mali empire, as it is evident that the weakest point of Mali during the game is before [Currency%20%28Civ6%29](Currency) is unlocked. Aim for this technology as soon as possible and get up multiple Suguba so your purchasing strategy can finally begin.
It is important that you promote either [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) or [Moksha%20%28Cardinal%29%20%28Civ6%29](Moksha) (preferably both) so that you can straight up buy districts using and as soon as possible, even though the -30% does not affect building districts. In new settlements, the Suguba should always be the first district to be put down, so that it starts applying the 20% purchasing discount immediately toward other items.
The best thing about the Suguba is undoubtedly its purchasing discount, but you can make it even better by combining it with other discounts. Remember, these discounts stack additively, not multiplicatively, so stacking 2 discounts will retain the efficiency of both (except for the last discount on this list). Below is the list of other percentage purchasing discounts in game: