# Sukiennice (Civ6)

The Sukiennice is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Polish%20%28Civ6%29](Polish) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and replaces the [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market).
Strategy.
Regardless of whether you plan on playing more offensively or defensively, you should develop Polish cities for commerce. Build [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) in every possible city, then fill them with Sukiennice to enjoy the extra (from domestic trade) and (from foreign trade). Be sure to augment your s via policy cards to provide further boosts. Some, like [Triangular%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Triangular Trade), are good for both types of routes, while [Market%20Economy%20%28Civ6%29](Market Economy) only impacts international routes. If you're aiming for a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Culture Victory), international trade will speed you along by further increasing your output. In "", the [University%20of%20Sankore%20%28Civ6%29](University of Sankore) has good synergy with this building, making domestic s even more powerful for Poland. Strive for other ways to increase s via [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress) resolutions, being a [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic), or [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ6](other wonders) to get the most out of the Sukiennice, and try to send at least 3 s to every Commercial [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-State).
The Sukiennice is a great building because every strong empire requires a strong network of s, making Commercial Hubs and Markets a must in every game. With the Sukiennice, you don't have to think too much about whether to send domestic or international s, as you have the best of both worlds with extra and it supplies. Early in the game, it's advisable to have domestic s originate in new cities to boost their growth - the extra 3 for every domestic completely nullifies the economic downside of this strategy.