# Swedish (Civ5)

The Swedish people (or Swedes) represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
The Swedish are a leading nation when it comes to [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomacy). They are really the only civilization that gains a hefty amount of from each [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great Person) gift to [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states), which is more than enough to secure city-state allies! But that's not all - they also receive a Great Person generation boost while declaring friendship with another nation (as does the nation with which they are declaring friendship).
For these reasons, it's advisable that you keep a good relationship with everyone, not just city-states. You should strongly consider adopting [Patronage%20%28Civ5%29](Patronage) once you have access to that [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](policy) tree, and make it a priority to gain as many Great People as you can, whether from s, Declarations of Friendship, or city-state allies (after adopting all the policies in the Patronage tree). Don't forget to give some of your Great People to city-states - each one translates to one new city-state ally! Additionally, you should try to build the [Leaning%20Tower%20of%20Pisa%20%28Civ5%29](Leaning Tower of Pisa) as early as possible, which will give you an even greater advantage on the diplomatic front.
Apart from these, the Swedish also have two fascinating [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units) which will help them in their war efforts. The [Hakkapeliitta%20%28Civ5%29](Hakkapeliitta), with their expertise in combats with [Great%20General%20%28Civ5%29](Great Generals), receive a combat bonus if they start a turn stacked with a Great General. What's more, Great Generals also benefit from this stacking, as they become as fast as the Hakkapeliitta in the next turn. Later on, their unique [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era) gunpowder unit, the [Carolean%20%28Civ5%29](Carolean), is the only military unit in the game that starts with the March [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion), allowing it to heal every turn regardless of whether or not it has performed an action.