# Tagma (Civ6)

The Tagma is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Heavy%20cavalry](heavy cavalry unit) of the [Byzantine%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantine) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) (when led by [Basil%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Basil II)) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knight) and is unlocked with [Divine%20Right%20%28Civ6%29](Divine Right).
In the "" expansion, the Tagma's cost is increased from 180 to 220, its purchasing cost is increased from 720 to 880, and its maintenance cost is increased from 3 to 4. It upgrades to a [Cuirassier%20%28Civ6%29](Cuirassier), and requires 10 to train.
Strategy.
The Tagma is a decent unique unit, neither weak nor outstanding. The only difference it has compared to the standard Knight is that it grants nearby military units and religious units 4 extra Combat Strength or Religious Strength. Note that this bonus does not stack when a unit stands next to multiple Tagmata, nor does a Tagma give it to itself. It slightly helps Byzantium in conquest and religious conversion, as their units will almost always have an edge in battle. Overall, the Tagma's true strength lies in the fact that Byzantium can print out free heavy cavalry units extremely rapidly with the [Hippodrome%20%28Civ6%29](Hippodrome), and they are further assisted by Basil II's and Byzantium's ability, so they are not a strong unit in themselves, but are very well supported by the rest of their civilization's toolkit. Even if Basil II did not have the Tagma as his unique unit, the standard Knight could still do the job well enough, so the Tagma is more like a cherry on top than a key to Byzantine power.
In conjunction with Basil II's ability, the Tagma allows you to pretty much ignore the bottom half of the tech tree in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) and [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) for a quite a while, since these technologies focus on unlocking siege, melee, and ranged units, which you do not need. You can rush for technologies that improve your empire's output like [Industrialization%20%28Civ6%29](Industrialization), and then go back to the technologies at the bottom later to unlock the [Cuirassier%20%28Civ6%29](Cuirassier) (in "Gathering Storm").