# Technology (SMAC)

Technology is a crucial part of "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)". It allows you superior fighting [Unit%20%28SMAC%29](units), [Base%20facilities%20%28SMAC%29](base infrastructure), [Terraforming%20%28SMAC%29](terraforming) options, and more. Any player that doesn't concentrate on researching new technologies will quickly be left behind.
How to research technology.
The [Social%20Engineering%20%28SMAC%29](Social Engineering) menu is where you determine what percentage of your turn's excess [Energy%20%28SMAC%29](energy) goes to researching new technology in your labs. The default is 50%. The more energy you produce and allocate for labs, the faster things get researched.
Building certain base facilities will increase the amount of energy sent to your labs from the bases they are built in. Certain Secret Projects will help your lab output as well.
Different factions have various [Research%20%28SMAC%29](research) bonuses or penalties.
Your Political, Economic, Value, and Society choices you make in the Social Engineering menu will also affect your research rating.
Which technologies appear when it's time to choose a research goal is determined by a complex and rather ridiculous system. At the start, the position of the seven factions on the start menu, affects which techs will appear. Then it is determined by what other technologies you have. Not just which ones you need to have before it though, but a complex system of groups either designed to make things as random as possible or just drive people insane. A fan made spreadsheet exists to help determine the path, but can only be used properly with Microsoft Excel to do all the macros. There is also a PDF file that lists all the possibilities.
Base facilities.
If you have 10 energy being produced at your base, 50% is 5. Having a Network Node, Research Hospital, and a Nanohospital would give you 15 points total.
Ways to increase energy.
Building solar arrays on energy bonuses and constructing bore holes everywhere, you will help you gain more energy. You can use supply crawlers to access it, even if they aren't in your base. It is best to choose one base to build all the secret projects that provide you with a lab bonus, and of course that base should also have all the base facilities to provide an even greater lab bonus. You can send [Supply%20Crawler%20%28SMAC%29](supply crawlers) to tap energy in the areas of other bases, or off in the wild. Drilling to the aquifer where a bore hole is will gain an extra energy point.
Free tech.
There are some technologies which provide you a free tech once you learn them. So even if you don't want them, you might as well do them, then get something else you were going to be researching instead.
Additional information.
Usually if you push your labs to 100% in your social engineering menu, you end up using more energy than you receive each turn. To make certain you don't run out, you can provoke the planet into sending [Native%20life%20%28SMAC%29](native lifeforms) for you to fight, you receiving ample energy credits for destroying them. Moving about fungus squares is a good way to attract addition early on. Once you are able to increase your [Minerals%20%28SMAC%29](mineral) input enough, then you will have far more appear, and even in groups if your ecological damage is high enough. And large number of things arriving at once, will have most of them in one pile. Use any ground unit to kill just one of them, and it kills all of them that were stacked there, earning you hundreds of energy credits easily.