# Temple (Civ5)

Game Info.
Vanilla.
Next-level cultural building. Requires [Monument%20%28Civ5%29](Monument).
"Gods &amp; Kings" and "Brave New World".
Advanced religious building. Requires [Shrine%20%28Civ5%29](Shrine).
Strategy.
In [vanilla](vanilla) "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", the Temple increases the of a [City%20%28Civ5%29](city), speeding the growth of its [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) and the [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization's) acquisition of [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies). The city must contain a Monument before the Temple can be constructed. The Temple allows the creation of one from a city's population, increasing the speed at which [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ5%29](Great Artists) appear.
Starting in "", the Temple is the next-level, must-have building for those wanting to establish a [Religion%20%28Civ5%29](religion) and use it. Besides its core production, Temples may produce much more via certain beliefs, and via the [Piety%20%28Civ5%29](Piety) social policy tree. The [Amphitheater%20%28Civ5%29](Amphitheater) replaces the Temple as the cultural building of the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Classical Era).
You need a Temple in each city in order to unlock the [Grand%20Temple%20%28Civ5%29](Grand Temple).
Given that [Philosophy%20%28Civ5%29](Philosophy) is a prerequisite for this building, you can get a pretty significant advantage early in the game by rushing straight for the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ5%29](Great Library), picking up [Calendar%20%28Civ5%29](Calendar) while you build it and then using the free [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](tech) to pick up Philosophy. This allows you to build some very early Temples in all your cities, and gives you a significant headstart towards later -centric technologies as well. Naturally, this is best combined with one of the Pantheon beliefs which give a boost to from specific tiles or [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resource) [List%20of%20improvements%20in%20Civ5](improvements), as well as vigorous exploration for religious [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states) and lucky boosts from [Ancient%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruins). Also, [Stonehenge%20%28Civ5%29](Stonehenge) is a powerful follow-up to the Great Library, if luck has it that no other civilization is going for it. If you then research [Theology%20%28Civ5%29](Theology), you are pretty much guaranteed to get the [Hagia%20Sophia%20%28Civ5%29](Hagia Sophia) for a free [Great%20Prophet%20%28Civ5%29](Great Prophet). It's worth noting that the Hagia Sophia also serves as a Temple, which leaves you entirely free to build Stonehenge in your while researching Theology without having to worry about building a Temple there as well. Towards the end of the construction of the Hagia Sophia, you should have already gotten your first natural Great Prophet; if not, you'll get one shortly thereafter. Getting two Great Prophets so early will allow you to enhance your religion very soon after its foundation. Lastly, having a Temple in each of your cities allows you to build a [Grand%20Temple%20%28Civ5%29](Grand Temple), so following up with this wonder after the Hagia Sophia makes for the final step in what is essentially the most powerful opening in the game if you're going for a religious empire.