# Temple of Artemis (Civ6)

The Temple of Artemis is an in "". It must be built adjacent to a [Camp%20%28Civ6%29](Camp).
Strategy.
With its respectable bonuses to and and potentially a lot of extra from improved [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources), the Temple of Artemis is one of the best early wonders for players who want to grow massive [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities). Giving [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) the [Tax%20Collector%20%28Civ6%29](Tax Collector) title and appointing her to the city that builds the Temple of Artemis can provide a wealth of as its Population increases. As strong as this wonder is, since it is a very early wonder, you should consider how many Camp, Pasture, and Plantation improvements you have to see if it is worth the high opportunity cost.
It is worth noting that the extra are not tied to the wonder, but to the improvements affected by it. Therefore, these will be supplied to the cities that own the tiles with the appropriate improvements, not the city that builds the wonder. This also means that you can have the relative freedom to choose which city you want to benefit most from working each tile and its by swapping tiles between them, either focusing the on one city so it can become Ecstatic or spreading them out to increase the number of Happy cities. Since the yield modifier brought by is percentage-based, matter more in large, productive cities than in small cities, and it is generally advisable to focus your on your core cities.
Note that a city needs only to own (not work) a tile with an improvement affected by the Temple of Artemis to receive the bonus. This means the owner still receives an if the improvement is 4 or 5 [hex](hex)es away from the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center), as can happen in cities with high output or by using the [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchant) [Marcus%20Licinius%20Crassus%20%28Civ6%29](Marcus Licinius Crassus).