# Terrain (Civ1)

Terrain tiles in the original "[Civilization](Civilization)" are square-shaped and comprise an 80x50 cylindrical map grid in all world types: random, customized, and EARTH.
## Overview

"Civilization" established broad concepts for terrain resources and exploitation that have seen gradual developments in later titles. Every civilization starts with the pseudo-[List_of_advances_in_Civ1](advances) of [Irrigation%20%28Civ1%29](Irrigation), [Mine%20%28Civ1%29](Mining), and [Roads%20%28Civ1%29](Roads), which dispersed into separate research goals later on in the series. The process of allocating population points to work tiles in the vicinity of a city, and improving the land for the city's use, therefore begins as soon as the first city is founded.
[Settlers%20%28Civ1%29]("Civ 1" Settlers) are responsible for creating both cities and terrain improvements. A city's terrain catchment area, which has come to be known as the [Big%20fat%20cross](Big fat cross), is a 5x5 square, minus the corners, with the city on the middle square. The city tile automatically produces resources as if [Roads%20%28Civ1%29](roaded) &amp; [Irrigation%20%28Civ1%29](irrigated), while the other 20 squares in the BFC require a population unit to be assigned to work it. Yields are in terms of [Food%20%28Civ1%29](food), [Production%20%28Civ1%29](shields), and [Trade%20%28yield%29%20%28Civ1%29](trade arrows). Special resources do appear in "Civ 1" and improve the harvest considerably when a citizen works the tile, but they are not strategic assets.
Remarks.
Rivers, Grasslands, and Plains are necessary and sufficient for developing cities in "Civ 1", because they feed the citizens working them. In Despotism, road the "shieldgrass" as soon as possible, and then road and irrigate Plains squares as needed. Buried in the first table's data is a hard truth that while grasslands can be irrigated under Despotism, there will be no increased food harvest for doing so. Output is penalized back to where it started. This issue alone makes the first government weak on food output. To feed foresters, miners, and elite citizens, a higher form of government is warranted.
Regular grass and "shieldgrass" are arranged in a striped diagonal step pattern. From a couple of visible grassland tiles, it is possible to deduce the arrangement of "shield river" tiles, and also determine which swamp and jungle tiles will turn into "shieldgrass" when irrigated (so they can be prioritized).
Special resources, for their part, are also arranged in particularly-shaped clusters. These shapes become especially apparent in the open seas. Keep an eye out for any grassland that is supposed to have a special on it. That tile can be Mined, which will turn it into Forest Game. Irrigating the forest will then turn it into Plains Horse, rich in shields and trade, although this step incurs a net loss of up to 1 Food (depending on gov't) from when it was Grassland.