# Terrace Farm (Civ6)

The Terrace Farm is a unique [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) of the [Incan%20%28Civ6%29](Incan) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It is available without any technological research and must be built on [Grassland%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Grassland Hills), [Plains%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Plains Hills), [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Hills) or [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil) [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles).
Strategy.
The entire Inca empire mounts on the shoulders of this improvement - without the Terrace Farms, the Inca have very little going for them. Terrace Farms, if employed correctly, can give an enormous early game boost to the Inca player. They will significantly boost production, while also increasing , the two yields that are required for every prosperous empire.
Make sure to place your Terrace Farms next to Mountains and, if possible, [River%20%28Civ6%29](Rivers), [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lakes), or Aqueducts to gain the greatest and yields possible. This will give you both populous and productive [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), and many Terrace Farms will provide you with to support the enormous Population that your cities might have if situated near Mountains. Don't forget that each Terrace Farm will also improve the yields of the adjacent mountain tile. Since Terrace Farms are the engine of the Incan empire, all Hills tiles next to Mountains should be reserved for them, s that gain adjacencies from Mountains ([Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campuses), [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites), also [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares), [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones) and [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) if you have [Machu%20Picchu%20%28Civ6%29](Machu Picchu)) should only be built on flat tiles.
Without Mountains, Fresh Water or [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueducts), Terrace Farms are just basically regular Farms (with twice the ) on Hills that you can build from the beginning of the game instead of after researching [Civil%20Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Civil Engineering), which is handy but nothing too extraordinary. Since you cannot control the map generation of Mountains, you should rely on placing Terrace Farms next to Aqueducts, which will give you a large amount of . Considering you are playing as the Inca under [Pachacuti%20%28Civ6%29](Pachacuti), his leader ability will guarantee your empire will never starve for , and since your is only slightly better than a regular civilization if you own a lot of Hills, it is more beneficial in the long run to focus on maximizing the output of Terrace Farms. When settling, your City Center should allow a good Aqueduct spot, which, ideally, should be totally surrounded by Hills that can be improved with a Terrace Farm later. If there is a flat tile next to your Aqueduct, reserve it for a future [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zone). Aqueducts are so important to the Inca that every city should get one, since your empire will definitely run into problems with your massive influx, and also [Engineering%20%28Civ6%29](Engineering) is a prerequisite technology for [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery), the technology that unlocks the [Warak%27aq%20%28Civ6%29](Warak'aq), so it is not like you have to go out of your way to build these Aqueducts anyway.
A less prominent feature of the Terrace Farm that the regular Farm does not have is that Terrace Farms can be built on [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert (Hills)), which allows Inca to thrive in hilly Desert areas. If you spot a Desert area that has a lot of Hills, you can send over a Settler to establish a city there, improve all the Hills to grow the city as quickly as possible and then try to rush for [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra). Thanks to the fact that an Incan Desert city can grow incredibly quickly if there are enough Hills, the construction of Petra is a lot smoother than other civilizations.
Note that Terrace Farms also enjoy adjacency bonuses with [Feudalism%20%28Civ6%29](Feudalism) and later with [Replaceable%20Parts%20%28Civ6%29](Replaceable Parts); however, these are triggered only by other Terrace Farms, not normal [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms). Also, Terrace Farms do not provide adjacency bonuses to normal Farms, nor can they unlock the for Feudalism (either alone or in combination with normal Farms).
Lastly, each mountain tile adjacent to a Terrace Farm will get +1 , along with the inherent ability of the Inca to get +2 from mountains. This works great with [Earth%20Goddess%20%28Civ6%29](Earth Goddess), allowing your mountains to provide great yields throughout the game. 