# The Head of Cyrus (Civ6)

 is the fourth [Challenge%20of%20the%20month%20%28Civ6%29](challenge of the month) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", running from February 13 to March 12, 2024.
Description.
This Valentine's Day, Cyrus the Great has proposed to you, the Scythian queen Tomyris. Respond in the only way you know how - with a beheading. Peace is not an option and war is the only way to preserve your unwedded bliss.
Curry favor with the Barbarian Clans of the arid lake to gain an army advantage, but be quick about it - this is going to get messy fast.
Intro.
This Valentine's Day, Cyrus the Great has proposed to you, the Scythian Queen Tomyris. Respond in the only way you know how - with a beheading. Peace is not an option. War is the only way to preserve your unwedded bliss.
Cyrus's empire already encroaches on your territory, and resource-laden lands are highly contested, Win the Barbarian Clans and City States of the arid lake to your side and gain an army advantage. Just be quick about it - this is going to get messy fast.
Strategy.
[Cyrus%20%28Civ6%29](Cyrus) is your only opponent in this challenge, and you can only win a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) against him. For best results, you want to start your offensive against him and capture his as soon as possible after hitting your power spike. You start in the northeast corner of the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map), and you'll have to make your way to the northwest corner to find Cyrus. Train a [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scout) and send it to explore the area around your starting location; you'll find [Preslav%20%28Civ6%29](Preslav) and [Kabul%20%28Civ6%29](Kabul) nearby. Send them some s and try to become the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of at least one of them (prioritizing Kabul, which has a much more useful Suzerain bonus). Use your Governor Titles to appoint [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor) and get [Embrasure%20%28Civ6%29](Embrasure) for him, and settle in [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource)-rich locations as you advance to the west. [Akkad%20%28Civ6%29](Akkad) is located near [Persian%20%28Civ6%29](Persian) [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory); become its Suzerain if possible and found a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) near it, then assign Victor to that city and start training [Saka%20Horse%20Archer%20%28Civ6%29](Saka Horse Archers) and [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Light%20cavalry](light cavalry units) nonstop. If you hit Cyrus hard and fast enough, you'll be able to take [Pasargadae](Pasargadae) before he can muster his defenses. If the war drags on, focus on beelining [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) that unlock stronger [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Ranged](ranged) and light cavalry units and levy [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) from your city-state allies to tip the balance in your favor.
Since the [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](game speed) is set to Online for this challenge, you may have difficulty getting a in the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era). Falling into a , however, can work to your benefit if you earn a high enough [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) to enter a in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), at which point you can start your conquest with three [Age%20%28Civ6%29%23Dedications](Dedications) active.
Despite the Barbarian Clans [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) being enabled in this challenge, the [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) can't establish new [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). Nevertheless, you can take advantage of this by hiring units from the Barbarian tribes and inciting those that spawn near Persia to attack them.