# The Solaris Project (CTP2)

The Solaris Project (referred to in-game as "The Solaris Project") is a [Wonder%20%28CTP2%29](Wonder) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)". It costs 25,000 production points to build.
Gameplay.
The Solaris Project was an experiment that proved that safe conversion from matter to energy was possible. This discovery opened the doors to new possibilities for utopian society - because people could convert any matter to energy, people would not want for energy. This boundless resource eliminates the conflict and strife associated with natural resource scarcity.
Discovery of the Solaris Project allows the beginning of the , and enables all empires to begin construction on the [Gaia%20Controller%20%28wonder%29%20%28CTP2%29](Gaia Controller).
Great Library entry.
The Solaris Project was the most ambitious scientific undertaking in the history of humankind. Conducted under a veil of secrecy to rival the Manhattan Project of the mid-20th century, it originally set out to prove that the conversion of matter to energy to new matter was possible. Primary research, which began in 2268, was conducted in one of the first nanite-constructed space stations. The project took a little over ten years to complete. Using their knowledge of unified field theory, nanotechnology and smart materials, Solaris Project scientists designed a small probe to launch into the center of the sun. They believed the secrets to energy to matter conversion lied in the massive fusion reactions of stars. The probe returned with a staggering array of new data that led researchers to finally reproduce a controlled energy-to-matter conversion in 2274. The final piece of the puzzle involved designing a system that would perform this entire process, providing a limitless supply of raw materials with which to build and create things.
The Gaia Controller was the application of this technology. It was comprised of three distinct groups of componentry. A system of small satellites circled the planet, collecting space debris, solar energy and various other sources of matter. Once collected the satellites converted the matter to energy, periodically beaming it down to obelisks placed at regular intervals on the surface. The obelisks were the primary matter collecting entities in the system, sending out vast groups of nanites designed to hunt out polluting agents in the air, water and earth. They also acted as receptacles for energy collected from satellites. Obelisks distributed energy to the various Gaia controller cores in cities around the world. The controller cores enabled operators to oversee the system, distribute and control energy and provide cities with a limitless supply of energy for the creation of new matter.