# The Enlightenment (Civ6)

The Enlightenment is a [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by earning 3 of any kind.
Strategy.
Rational thinking was first spurred by slowly spreading knowledge of sciences. And then Humanism prepared the social psyche for a groundbreaking paradigm shift, which will throw it into modernity. The Enlightenment is the next philosophical step for a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) towards a future free from groundless assumptions, fanaticism, and slavery of both the mind and the body. It enables many new and useful Economic [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Policies), while also reducing the effect of [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religious)-based foreign influence on your empire.
This civic also makes [Urban%20Planning%20%28Civ6%29](Urban Planning), one of the most useful early-game policy cards, [obsolete](obsolete). Unlike most obsolete policies, none of the policies unlocked by The Enlightenment improve upon the +1 bonus Urban Planning gives to all [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) - instead, they offer boosts to , , or in cities with strict minimum requirements. While these new policies are useful for civilizations with a few, large cities, they are often worse than Urban Planning for cities that are still growing. However, it's not recommended to put off this civic, as it is essential for most late civics. The lost in small cities can be made up for with domestic s or by purchasing [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders).
When researched by enemy civilizations, The Enlightenment can hurt a Relic-based cultural game significantly. A player focusing on such a strategy should prioritize building [Cristo%20Redentor%20%28Civ6%29](Cristo Redentor), a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) that negates the -lowering effect of their Relics on enemy civs.
Discovering The Enlightenment triggers the for [Scientific%20Theory%20%28Civ6%29](Scientific Theory).