# The Road to War (Civ4)

The Road to War is a [Mods%20%28Civ4%29](mod) introduced in the "[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" expansion "". It is set in [World%20War%20II](World War II). There are three gameplay scenarios: one set in [Europe](Europe) a month before the outbreak of World War II, a second one set in Europe three years before the war, and a third set in the Pacific in 1936.
All major civilizations (Germany, Soviet Union, England, France, Italy, United States, Japan, Republic of China, People's Republic of China) receive a wide variety of unique units in this mod. For example, instead of the generic tanks which other civs can build, the Germans can build a range of Panzers, the Americans Shermans and Pershings, the British Crusaders, and the Soviets T-34s and T-26s.
In the scenarios there are three modes of play: accurate historical events, random historical events, and open play. The first will disable all declarations of war and peace; these events are scripted - for example, the Americans will declare war on the Axis during the first two weeks of December 1941. Random historical events will also disable declarations of war; these will take place within a few months of their actual occurrence. Open play allows the construction of Settlers and allows players to declare war and make peace whenever they want. Open play is perfect for fans of alternate history who want to simulate an Axis victory or a "Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert" scenario involving a Soviet invasion of Europe.
All [Religion%20%28Civ4%29](religions) have been removed and replaced by the three values of Democracy, Fascism, and Communism. There is also a fourth value, Neutral, that is only available in Open Play.
The version included with BtS has three scenarios: Europe 1936, Europe 1939, and Pacific 1936. Additional scenarios that can be downloaded include Pacific 1941 and Global Assault (which uses the Earth map used in Next War).
Europe scenarios.
Playable civs:
Pacific scenario.
Playable civs: