# The Samurai Invasion of Korea (Civ5)

 is a [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" which was added in the "" [DLC%20%28Civ5%29](DLC). It involves Toyotomi Hideyoshi's Japanese Invasion of Korea from 1592 to 1598.
Scenario Description.
Blessings be upon you great one -- may the mandate of heaven guide you through these difficult times, for the winds of change are upon us, sweeping over East Asia. The victories of the great Japanese warlord Toyotomi Hideyoshi have at long last unified that island nation. Confident in Japan's new gunpowder weaponry, Hideyoshi now casts his eye to the west. Both the venerable Ming Dynasty in China and their ally the Choson Dynasty in Korea must be vigilant! And there is news of a new power taking shape to the north on the Manchurian Plain. Ready your soldiers, your horsemen, and your navies: all forms of weapons and technology must be brought to bear in the coming struggle for control of the lands surrounding the Yellow Sea!
Gameplay.
The scenario can be played as one of four civilizations. In the scenario, [Chinese%20%28Civ5%29](China) and [Korean%20%28Civ5%29](Korea) are in a team, and are locked into war with [Japanese%20%28Civ5%29](Japan). Japan begins with a huge invasion force just off the coast of Korea, and in almost every case will wind up taking the Korean [City%20%28Civ5%29](city) of Busan on the first turn.
Manchuria begins with only one city (Fe Ala) and a handful of troops to the north of China and Korea. Manchuria has the Eight Banners unique ability, which allows them to convert a [Barbarian%20%28Civ5%29](barbarian) [Encampment%20%28Civ5%29](encampment) guardian whenever an encampment is destroyed, with 100% chance of succeeding, and even providing a soldier if an encampment has no guardian. It is actually possible to get the "Barbarian Warlord" [List%20of%20achievements%20in%20Civ5](achievement) as Manchuria, even though the achievement's description says it must be done as [Otto%20von%20Bismarck%20%28Civ5%29](Bismarck). [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers) cannot be built, and thus China, Korea, and Japan cannot build cities. The Manchu (Manchuria), however, can build the unique unit, Clan, which is a unique Settler that provides a [Monument%20%28Civ5%29](Monument), [Granary%20%28Civ5%29](Granary), and [Market%20%28Civ5%29](Market) in each city it founds. The Manchu also get the Banner Cavalry, a re-used [Keshik%20%28Civ5%29](Keshik) with lesser Combat Strength, Ranged Combat Strength, and cost in comparison to Keshiks.
[Science%20%28Civ5%29](Science) is turned off and science buildings are unavailable. The [Paper%20Maker%20%28Civ5%29](Paper Maker) unique building for China has been converted into a replacement for the [Bank%20%28Civ5%29](Bank), and has been changed to produce +4 and 0 . The Koreans' "Scholars of the Jade Hall" unique ability that improves has been replaced with the "Righteous Army" unique ability, which prevents Korea from being eliminated from the game if it loses all its cities, and receive free guerrilla soldiers every ten turns near captured Korean cities. The Japanese [Zero%20%28Civ5%29](Zero) is unavailable due to locked science, and has been replaced with a [Wajo%20%28Civ5%29](Wajo) unique improvement, a re-used [Fort%20%28Civ5%29](Fort) that provides a +50% combat bonus to units stationed on it and deals 2 damage to any enemy that ends their turn adjacent to one.
Either Japan or Manchuria can win by conquering both the Chinese and Korean capitals ([Beijing](Beijing) and [Seoul](Seoul)). China and Korea win by being in control of all of their original cities any time after the year 1600 (Turn 16), but before the time limit of 100 turns ends. If the time limit is reached and none of the victory conditions are met, the civilization with the highest score wins.