# Theming bonus (Civ5)

A theming bonus is a and bonus acquired by combining [Great%20Work%20%28Civ5%29](Great Works) according to certain requirements in most cultural [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](World Wonders) and [Museum%20%28Civ5%29](Museums). The bonus from theming is added to the [City%20%28Civ5%29](city's) base (which is affected by bonuses from [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) such as [Hotel%20%28Civ5%29](Hotels) and [Airport%20%28Civ5%29](Airports)); the bonus applies directly to the total city output.
Completing the [Aesthetics%20%28Civ5%29](Aesthetics) policy tree doubles your theming bonuses. The [French%20%28Civ5%29](French) [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) "City of Light" doubles the theming bonus in their .
Checking your theming bonus.
Go to the Culture Overview screen, open the tab "Your Culture". In buildings and wonders that have more than one slot for a Great Work (e.g., any Museum, the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ5%29](Great Library), the [Louvre%20%28Civ5%29](Louvre), etc.) you will see a +0 next to the Great Works in that building. Mouse over the +0 to see what you need to do to activate the theming bonus for this building or wonder. If the theming bonus is activated, you will see a number instead (e.g., +1, +2).
Theming bonus details.
There are a total of nine wonders and one building with theming bonuses in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" and its expansions.
Strategy.
It is important to acquire as many Great Works as possible for a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory). Set up a high- city (usually your ) with a lot of buildings and wonders that speed up [Great%20People%20%28Civ5%29](Great Person) generation. It is more efficient to house the [Artists%27%20Guild%20%28Civ5%29](Artists'), [Musicians%27%20Guild%20%28Civ5%29](Musicians'), and [Writers%27%20Guild%20%28Civ5%29](Writers' Guilds) in one city because most of the wonders that increase Great Person generation only have city-based bonuses. Use the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress) to increase cultural Great Person generation, through the Arts Funding [Resolutions%20%28Civ5%29](resolution).
Plan your Great Person generation depending on the wonders you are planning to get. Early game wonders focus on writing, mid game wonders on art and late game wonders on music. This is especially important with wonders that require multiple Great Works from the same [Era%20%28Civ5%29](era). You can delay going to the next era by changing your research until your last Great Person needed for the theming bonus spawns. You can also save Great People for an immediate theming bonus when you complete a late game wonder, because the Great Work era is determined by the era when it was created, not when the Great Person was generated.
You can use the Great Writers' Political Treatise ability to complete Aesthetics faster and double your theming bonus as early as possible. It will be a greater increase of compared to popping it for another Great Work (unless, of course, you've already completed the tree, in which case a Great Work is better). When you fill all your wonders with Great Works of Art, and if your [Archaeology%20%28concept%29%20%28Civ5%29](archaeology) is strong, use your Great Artists for s instead of Great Works. The reason for this is that Museum bonuses can be fulfilled with Artifacts as well, and they are the only other building with Art slots. This is doubly valid if you're playing as [Brazilian%20%28Civ5%29](Brazil), whose unique ability doubles during s.