# Thành (Civ6)

The Thành is a unique of the [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnamese) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It replaces the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment).
Buildings.
The following buildings can be constructed in a Thành:
Strategy.
The Thành is an incredible , it is so powerful and unique that it completely repurposes the original [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment), and it breathes a new life into somewhat of a forsaken specialty .
The most obvious downside of the Encampment is that it takes up a slot. No matter which Victory you are pursuing, there is no situation in which building Encampments in every city is a good strategy. The most bloodthirsty warmongers, including the [Zulu%20%28Civ6%29](Zulu) with their [Ikanda%20%28Civ6%29](Ikanda), do not need the defensive capability of the Encampment, and civilizations who do not pursue a Domination Victory always have higher priorities in other s, which, all in all, leaves the Encampment in a bad position: no one can benefit completely off of every aspect of this when it is taking up space of other more influential s. The Vietnamese Thành eliminates this completely. First and foremost, the Thành does not require Population, which means it can be placed down in every city without normal repercussions. Even before taking into account the massive and generated by a good Thành placement, just this change alone turns the Encampment on its head and reshapes the way it should be played with. Vietnam is a Domination/Cultural civilization, and just the sheer number of Thành can give them an unbreakable multilayered shield for defense, and with some buildings inside the , a good flow of points for offense. Enemies who are foolish enough to invade Vietnam will get bombarded from all sides by multiple Thành, while having to crawl painfully slowly through rough terrains.
The Thành also serves another crucial purpose for Vietnam: being the and generator for the civilization. It gains a major adjacency bonus for every nearby, so it is natural that you would want to turn the Thành into a mini [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) and surround it with s. One notable placement rule to keep in mind is that similar to the Encampment it replaces, Thành cannot be placed next to City Centers, so you will not get an easy +2 without having to dedicate to erecting s. Therefore:
Theoretically, a Thành can reach a maximum of 12 , but this is easier said than done. Vietnam, with their tier 1 starting bias with Woods and Rainforests, is prone to receive strategic, and especially luxury resources, on these tiles, not to mention their unique ability limits where specialty s can go. Even with [Medieval%20Faires%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Faires), there are tiles that Woods cannot be planted on, like [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert), [Snow%20%28Civ6%29](Snow) and [Floodplains%20%28Civ6%29](Floodplains), effectively further restricting the type of s that can go on those tiles to non-specialty only. The strength of the Thành is that it can be placed in any city, for it does not require Population, so there is no need to bend over backward to reach this maximum number.
Speaking of the all-important Medieval Faires civic, the Thành is a crucial player in helping Vietnam reach that feat with a respectable timing. As mentioned above, although the Thành is so different from the Encampment it replaces, most players still tend to forget about it when they finish researching [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working), since the Encampment has never been a priority so high that it has to be placed down immediately after unlocking. The Thành for Vietnam, however, is such a priority. The Vietnam gains from having buildings on [Woods%20%28Civ6%29](Woods) is pathetic, that "bonus" is a flytrap more than anything. The cheapest building that can leverage that bonus is the [Shrine%20%28Civ6%29](Shrine) (70 ), while your unique has the base cost of 27 , even after the scaling due to civic and technology progression, the ratio of per extra is still heavily in favor of the Thành. In the first two eras, all your cities should have a Thành, a [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) and a third specialty in a triangle (this can be a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) for a Cultural game, or a [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) for a Domination game). By the virtue of this, you will have a good and flow to beeline Machinery and Medieval Faires simultaneously. This can easily be achieved, since all you need to do is to find two tiles with features next to one another, and place the Thành adjacent to both. A Thành is not a specialty , so it is not subjected to the feature-only placement rule, which also means a Thành will clear out the feature on its tile when get placed down. 
After the [Civilization%20VI%20April%202021%20Update](April 2021 Update), the Thành was nerfed so that it no longer provides 1 point. However, considering how important the extra provided by the is to your Voi Chiến timing push, being able to get at least 1 before Medieval Era hits is still a must. There are a couple of ways you can do this. The least efficient way to generate points is to build more [Barracks%20%28Civ6%29](Barracks). You still need at least 1 Barracks in the early game to boost the experience gained by your Archers/Voi Chiến, but building any more Barracks than that feels like a waste, since this building is as expensive as a Library, doesn't give you anything more than just the point, and it doesn't benefit from the Vietnamese civilization ability, since the Thành is not a specialty . The better ways to do this are either to run the [Strategos%20%28Civ6%29](Strategos) policy card (you have to sacrifice a Wildcard policy slot for this), or to complete one or two Encampment Training [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects), which is more efficient in terms of point received per spent, and you will get some back that can be used to upgrade your units later. If you insist on building a few Barracks, make sure you research [Military%20Training%20%28Civ6%29](Military Training) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) to unlock the [Veterancy%20%28Civ6%29](Veterancy) [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card). The for this civic is to build an Encampment, which is something you want to do anyway, and all of its prerequisites are civics you have to research regardless in order to reach Medieval Faires. Veterancy is an incredible policy card for Vietnam, so you would want it sooner or later, since it makes the Thành even cheaper, along with all buildings inside.
A hidden benefit of the Thành is that it makes counterespionage simple and efficient. One Spy, when placed on a Thành tile, is able to protect all s around it, allowing Vietnam to easily protect their properties against sabotage. Also, since Vietnam is the only civilization incentivized to build Encampments in every city, they are the best to make use of the otherwise lackluster [Consulate%20%28Civ6%29](Consulate), making spying against Vietnam even harder.
A pitfall that many players often get caught into is to put yields above anything else. Remember, this is still an Encampment, its defensive capability is also something should be taken into consideration. A huge Thành formation right in the core of your empire connecting s from multiple cities can be satisfying in terms of output, but it does next to nothing against an invasion from outside. Hence, cities on the outskirt of your empire should be treated as standalone cities, their Thành should be prioritized for defensive purposes and help shield your core cities from outside aggressions. These core cities, thus, can safely use their Thành for and pursuits.