# Timeline (Civ6)

Timelines are a feature added to "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" in the "" expansion pack. They record the various [Historic%20Moment%20%28Civ6%29](Historic Moments) a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) has achieved, allowing the player to review them later.
Your Timeline can be called up using the button in the upper left corner of the screen. You will see a stylish papyrus where all great achievements of your civilization appear, with the exact year they happened, which game turn it was and the [Ages%20%28Civ6%29%23Era%20Score](Era Score) you earned for them. When you mouse over each particular one you will see a tooltip explaining this score.
Trivia.
Here's the lead designer [Anton%20Strenger](Anton Strenger) on the subject:
Fans of "Civilization" know that each game plays out in its own way, with its own unique story. With "Civilization VI: Rise and Fall", we are bringing that story into the spotlight by adding more ways to track the progress of a player’s civilization than ever before.
So as players progress in "Civilization: Rise and Fall", they earn Historic Moments. These are mini-achievements for doing cool things in the world (and there are over 100 of them in the game right now). They include things like circumnavigating the world, training your unique unit, founding a religion, and building districts with high adjacency bonuses. Many grant an even bigger bonus if you’re the “world’s first” civilization to make the achievement. These Historic Moments, taken together, form a story for your game with unique details tailored to your empire.
Historic Moments are represented two ways. First, they increase your Era Score, helping you achieve a Golden Age. Second, they are added to your Timeline, which is a place in the UI that displays all your accomplishments in a game. This Timeline has tons of custom illustrations for each different moment, and is a very cool representation of your empire’s history during your unique game. On a more practical note, it is also a useful way to remind yourself of what you have been up to if you return to a saved game after a few days away. Ultimately, the Timeline is a way to illustrate your story.