# Tlachtli (Civ6)

The Tlachtli is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Aztec%20%28Civ6%29](Aztec) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built in the [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) and replaces the [Arena%20%28Civ6%29](Arena).
Strategy.
The Entertainment Complex, together with the Arena, is very much a forgotten piece of infrastructure, as the only situation in which anyone would want to build it early is when they want to construct the almighty [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum) (which doesn't even require an Arena in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI"). For the Aztecs, the conquerors of the world, there is definitely no reason for them to have to build this [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) when they can take it forcefully instead. The Tlachtli is obviously an upgrade from the Arena, but its bonus is nowhere near enough to warrant an early focus. 2 extra is too small, especially since the spoils of war will always be much greater than this, and the Aztecs always build at least one or two [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) for some points.
Overall, the Tlachtli is among the worst pieces of unique infrastructure in the game, as it gives some bonuses that the civilization either doesn't need or can obtain in abundance easily from another source. Under the vanilla ruleset, you can pretty much ignore this building entirely, or at least delay its construction until much later in the game when are required to support larger cities. From "" onward, if you capture the Colosseum from a neighbor, the standard Arena required to build it will be converted into a Tlachtli afterwards, giving you both the wonder and the +4 [Historic%20Moments%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) and saving you from having to waste on this building. The [Golf%20Course%20%28Civ6%29](Golf Course), as bad as it is, is at least somewhat synergistic with [Scottish%20%28Civ6%29](Scotland), can be cheaply built with [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders), and doesn't require a that hardly anyone wants in the early game.