# Torre de Belém (Civ6)

The Torre de Belém is a [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonder) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It must be built on [Coast%20%28Civ6%29](Coast) adjacent to land and a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor). It cannot be built on a [Lake%20%28Civ6%29](Lake).
Strategy.
Generally speaking, the Torre de Belém is an unreliable wonder. It has two main bonuses: one is dependent on your trading partners to be effective, and the other is borderline impossible to properly plan for.
The main bonus of the Torre de Belém is extra for international s. Now, there are cases where this bonus will add a massive amount of to your international s. To take advantage of this bonus, you must send all your s from the city in which this wonder is built, and you must send them to foreign [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) with many [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](luxury resources) (they don't have to be unique ones; duplicates work just as well). Note that this doesn't mean you can simply find the city with the most luxury resources and send "all" of your s there, since each from a given city must have a unique destination. You could attempt to count the number of luxuries each city has, but in practice this bonus simply adds more to certain s on the list, and if your end goal is then you'll still just select the route with the highest yield. It is possible to find cities where this bonus has a large impact due to the presence of many luxury resources, but you may still find that other cities still provide more due to their bonuses from s or elsewhere. It's also important to note that this bonus stacks nicely with the bonus from being the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of [Venice%20%28Civ6%29](Venice), so players who already have this Suzerainty may want to give this wonder extra consideration.
The second bonus is definitely more interesting and unique, but even less reliable than the first one. It gives every city that isn't on your home [Continent%20%28Civ6%29](continent) the cheapest [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) that city can build for free. The huge problem with this bonus is that you cannot plan for it to give you what you want. Your cities will constantly have to produce something, so the chances of the building you need being the cheapest one you can get for free upon completing the Torre de Belém are extremely small. Most of the time, you will be building this wonder when you accidentally realize you can actually make use of this second bonus, so to attempt to make the best use of this ability, construct your City Center buildings ASAP, as these are the cheapest and hopefully when the Torre de Belém is complete, you will receive more valuable buildings such as [Library%20%28Civ6%29](Libraries) or [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Markets). Try to construct those City Center buildings with the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress) resolution that grants +100% to a certain , as the AI is likely to agree with a City Center vote in these early eras where cities are still being settled.
However, one of the most economical and reliable uses of the second bonus is to try and get [Flood%20Barrier%20%28Civ6%29](Flood Barriers) into your overseas cities after discovering [Computers%20%28Civ6%29](Computers). Because the mechanic only looks at base , and the Flood Barrier costs a mere 80 , purchasing other buildings of equal or lower cost can ensure these cities are protected from rising sea levels on the cheap. As colonial cities tend to be coastal and have weaker than cities near the , this is likely the best value one can get out of the wonder.
Overall, since the first bonus grants mostly inconsequential amounts of for an absurd amount of and the second bonus is too random and unreliable to be worked into a general strategy, there is no main reason why you should build the Torre de Belém. Trade-focused [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) with a lot of s, including [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenicia), [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal), the [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Netherlands), [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Mali), and [English%20%28Civ6%29](England), can pay attention to this wonder, as well as anyone playing on a [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) that has multiple continents. However, these aforementioned civilizations tend not to have trouble generating from their dense trade network, so this wonder's economic bonuses are but a drop in the bucket.