# Tourism (Civ5)

Introduction.
 Tourism is a new gameplay stat in the "" expansion pack, and the key to achieving the new [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](Cultural Victory). It can be described as the second, offensive part of the new cultural system of the game - practically an offensive , which exclusively affects the other [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations), spreading your influence by cultural means. Its sources are unique works of art produced by your civilization, which rise above building a wonderful building or making lots of theater plays and operas, as well as ancient artifacts dug up by your [Archaeologist%20%28Civ5%29](Archaeologists) and then proudly displayed in your [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) and [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders). Their exceptional cultural value, stamped with the unique mark of your civ, impacts other civilizations, spreading the glory of your culture and impressing them.
At the same time, the previously known is used to "counter" other civilizations'  Tourism, asserting your own cultural identity and protecting it from the spread and influence of other cultures.
Producing Tourism.
 Tourism is similar to  in that it is only used on the empire level. Its production mechanics, however, are quite different. First of all, the  Tourism you generate isn't spent on anything - no [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](Social Policy) adoption, no [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](unit) and building purchase, etc. Instead, Tourism just piles up slowly, turn after turn, spreading the fame of your civilization across the globe, or at least to every single civilization you've met. Sources of Tourism are few, and very scarce in the early and middle game; only in the late game do certain new [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technologies) like [Flight%20%28Civ5%29](Flight) help your influence spread faster. The purpose for this is, of course, to eliminate any possibility of a premature Cultural Victory.
Great Works.
Unlike , which has many sources (including external sources, such as Cultured [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-States)), the main source of  Tourism is [Great%20Work%20%28Civ5%29](Great Works) and [Great%20Work%20%28Civ5%29%23Artifact](Artifacts) - a new class of game objects, or game items with great cultural significance. Both are produced by your civilization's efforts, won from other civilizations by conquest, or traded for the same type of item from another civilization. These new game items represent your civilization's unique cultural "offensive" power which directly affects the other civilizations' own .
Great Works and Artifacts are used by placing them into appropriate special slots in special buildings in your [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities). In fact, you can't even produce a Great Work or dig out an Artifact unless there's a free slot of the appropriate type to put it in. Only then are the  Tourism and benefits activated. Each Great Work/Artifact provides a base of +2 Tourism (as well as +2 ), and under special conditions may add much more.
Finally, [Museum%20%28Civ5%29](Museums) and certain wonders have the ability to produce additional Tourism (and ) as a bonus if you fill their slots with certain combinations of Great Works and/or Artifacts. These bonuses count as base stats, and are basically free points which have the potential to boost your overall  Tourism output significantly. The [Aesthetics%20%28Civ5%29](Aesthetics) policy tree finisher doubles these bonuses for an even greater impact.
Buildings.
All cultural buildings (except the [Monument%20%28Civ5%29](Monument)) now have free slots for Great Works or Artifacts, and consequently, are able to produce  Tourism when these slots are filled. Note that each slot is associated with a building, and by extension a city. If, for some reason, you lose the building or the city, you will also lose the Great Work and all the Tourism and it produced. At the same time, the enemy that acquires that city will gain the Great Work and all its bonuses. That's why it is recommended to move all Great Works/Artifacts from cities which are in danger of falling to enemy invaders.
In later [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras), when travelling to other countries isn't done only for business or military reasons but also for leisure, new buildings become available which are specifically designed to boost Tourism based on existing  Tourism and within the city and surrounding territory. The [Hotel%20%28Civ5%29](Hotel) and the [Airport%20%28Civ5%29](Airport) are designed to facilitate the touristic trips of guests and help them experience much more of your culture. Thanks to them, you can now use the countryside as a source of your  Tourism, as it isn't only scholars that visit your museums, but there are also common people that get impressed by nice -generating improvements, such as the [Landmark%20%28Civ5%29](Landmarks). Note that both of these buildings require an existing base ( Tourism and sources), and don't produce  Tourism on their own.
The [National%20Visitor%20Center%20%28Civ5%29](National Visitor Center) greatly increases your  Tourism output. Also, your  Tourism output is doubled upon the discovery of [The%20Internet%20%28Civ5%29](The Internet).
Theming Bonus.
All buildings that contain more than one Great Work slot may activate a special theming bonus. This produces additional points of Tourism and for the city without actually having more Great Works or Artifacts. Needless to say, activating these bonuses is extremely important for maximizing your  Tourism.
Spreading Tourism.
 Tourism spreads the fame of your civilization's culture to the other civilizations. This is done automatically to all civilizations you've already met. You have to try to meet all of them ASAP if you hope to achieve a Cultural Victory, so that you can start influencing them early on.
Specific influence is tracked separately for each civilization still in the game from the moment you meet. The score is formed by your basic  Tourism output, modified by certain special conditions which boost or diminish it:
The presence of each of the above conditions adds a +25% bonus to the  Tourism added each turn to the total. All of these bonuses (except for the Diplomat) are increased to +40% once you adopt [Cultural%20Exchange%20%28Civ5%29](Cultural Exchange) from the [Aesthetics%20%28Civ5%29](Aesthetics) policy tree.
At the same time, differing Ideology enacts a -33% penalty on  Tourism.
Tourism and the Cultural Victory.
Depending on the relation between the total  Tourism of one civilization and the total of another, the former's influence state may be represented as one of these six stances:
When you reach "Influential" status with every civilization still in play, you immediately achieve a [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](Cultural Victory).
Countering Tourism.
The cultural influence of a specific civilization over the others' culture is determined by the relative strength of the first civ's Tourism and the second civ's . The stats accumulated over time are compared, and the result determines the level of influence of the former over the latter, as well as the trend (Rising Slowly, Rising, or Falling). Simply said, the best way to defend against another civ's influence is to develop your own . This will slow down their influence, stop it completely, or even reverse it.
The other things you can do to defend against a rival's cultural influence, is to prevent the conditions which boost it: don't establish Trade Routes with them, prevent their Religion from dominating your cities, and don't accept Open Borders treaties. To prevent them from establishing Trade Routes with you or placing a Diplomat in your , you can simply declare war. Also, you can build the [Great%20Firewall%20%28Civ5%29](Great Firewall) to cancel the  Tourism bonus other players will get from [The%20Internet%20%28Civ5%29](The Internet).
Tourism and Ideology.
 Tourism also plays an important part in the new Ideology system. As in the real world, cultural influence is important when determining public opinion of political matters. In the game, this is represented by the Public Opinion trend, which compares a civilization's [%23Tourism%20and%20the%20Cultural%20Victory](influence level) (exotic, familiar, etc.) over others with the influence level of others over them. When influenced by civilizations with differing Ideologies (i.e., their Tourism is "Familiar" with your and yours only "Exotic" with theirs), their influence on your population's Public Opinion is stronger than your own, creating until you change your Ideology to theirs, improve your  Tourism dominance over them, or reduce their  Tourism dominance over you. For more information, check the article on [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29%23Public%20Opinion%20and%20Preferred%20Ideology](Ideology).
Other Gameplay Effects of Tourism.
As of the [Fall%202013%20patch%20%28Civ5%29](Fall 2013 patch),  Tourism also provides benefits when it comes to achieving the other victory conditions, based on the influence status with other civilizations.
Science from Trade Routes.
Cultural influence with a certain civilization increases output from trade routes established with them. So, boost your research by opening Trade Routes with civs you're influencing culturally!
Espionage.
Your [Espionage%20%28Civ5%29](spies) become more effective in civilizations culturally influenced by you. They will take only one turn to establish surveillance in their cities. Higher influence status also makes them operate as if they had already been promoted.
Conquest.
When you capture a city belonging to an enemy influenced by you, Resistance in that city will last for fewer turns. Also, the city will lose fewer citizens when captured.