# Tourism (Civ6)

 Tourism is one of the main statistics in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It represents the special cultural appeal of a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) to foreign civilizations. It is closely related to and is key to one of the possible victory types - specifically, [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory).
Mechanics.
Unlike regular , Tourism can't be used for anything by the civilization that produces it - instead, it applies steady pressure to all other civilizations that the player has already met. This pressure accumulates over time, attracting tourists to the various sources of Tourism in your lands, and eventually it may lead your civilization to a Cultural Victory.
Note that for Cultural Victories, pressure from Tourism is applied to civilizations from the moment you meet them. So, exploration, meeting all civilizations, and having them in the game (i.e., liberating captured cities to prevent them from being eliminated) is very important for a Cultural Victory.
 Tourism is divided into two types:
The two types behave differently in the game world. While Religious Tourism is potentially much stronger in the first half of world history, it is nevertheless based on ideas (and items) which are later negated and become less effective. General tourism sources, on the other hand, have a broad rational appeal which retains its strength through the ages.
Even so, certain actions like constructing the [Cristo%20Redentor%20%28Civ6%29](Cristo Redentor) or picking the Reliquaries belief can help sustain your Relics' cultural importance through the ages.
Domestic Tourists and Visiting (Foreign) Tourists.
There are two different kinds of tourists which are important to understand when it comes to a Cultural Victory. You can track their numbers in the Cultural Victory tab of the Victory screen.
Each civilization is designated with numbers for domestic tourists and foreign tourists. To win a Cultural Victory your civilization must attract a higher number of total visiting tourists than the highest of any other civilization's domestic tourists.
Note that each civilization's tourist contingent starts as one, but each turn they choose whether to visit their own lands or a foreign country. If you can attract foreign tourists from another civilization faster than they can generate tourists then the number of their domestic tourists will fall and the barrier to victory might also lower, if that civilization has the highest number of domestic tourists of all. You can visualize this dynamic if you track their domestic tourists growth in the moments other civilizations take their turns, and then compare the numbers after the process ends. You will notice that they reach a certain number, which goes down afterwards - this is because your civilization's Tourism effect is calculated last, and it has taken out some domestic tourists to turn them into your visiting tourists.
The number of domestic tourists a civilization attracts is calculated as follows:
 Domestic Tourists = (Lifetime Culture Accumulation + Life Time Civic Boosts) / 100
Note that the equivalent value of s counts towards domestic Tourism.
The number of visiting (foreign) tourists your civilization can attract from another is calculated as follows:
 Foreign Tourists from one Civilization = Lifetime Tourism Output to that Civilization / (# of civilizations * 200)
Note that in "" the modifier was increased from 150 to 200. 
 Tourism output to a civilization equals the base Tourism output of your civilization multiplied by the total modifiers specific to that civilization, determined by tech, relations, policies, etc. Each civilization can in principle have a different number of tourists visiting your civilization. See the [%23Example](example) in a later section.
 Foreign Tourists = Sum of Foreign Tourists from each other Civilization
The total foreign tourists of your civilization is the sum of foreign tourists from every other civilization. When your total foreign tourists is greater than the number of domestic tourists of another civilization, your civilization is "culturally dominant" over that civilization.
An immediate effect of the way foreign tourists are accumulated from all civilizations is that: the tourists attracted from one civilization to your civilization contributes to your progress towards cultural dominance over a third civilization. In turn, that means an increase in the number of civilizations can make defense against cultural dominance more difficult, since the tourists attracted from relatively open civilizations can outweigh the lack of tourists from a few heavily 'defended' civilization.
The latter stages of the game typically have Tourism outputs per turn in the order of thousands after modifiers, and thus this renders early Tourism gains negligible - one late-game turn might accumulate the entire Tourism output of the first 150 turns. However the buildings, items or wonders that gave rise to early Tourism may prove to be valuable for a Cultural Victory in the latter stages.
Cultural dominance.
As stated above, in order to win a Cultural Victory, you need to attract a total number of visiting tourists larger than any other civilizations' number of domestic tourists. On your way to defeat the civilization with the highest number of domestic tourists, you will step by step become culturally dominant over other lesser cultures. Having cultural dominance over a civilization provides you with these benefits:
Sources of Tourism.
Base Tourism is produced by very specific sources.
Great Works.
Great Works are items of exceptional cultural quality which are important enough to contribute to world culture in general. There are three types of Great Works:
Great Works of Art.
They are produced by the [Great%20Artist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Artists), [Great%20Writer%20%28Civ6%29](Great Writers), and [Great%20Musician%20%28Civ6%29](Great Musicians) attracted to your civilization, and all of them create General Tourism.
Artifacts.
 [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29%23Artifacts](Artifacts) are dug up by [Archaeologist%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeologists) and also create General Tourism. Each Archaeologist produced by a city which has constructed an [Archaeological%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeological Museum) can acquire three Artifacts (six for [English%20%28Civ6%29](England) in the base game and "Rise and Fall"). Each Artifact provides +3 Tourism, which can double to +6 Tourism if the Archaeological Museum is [Theming%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](themed).
Relics.
 [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29%23Relics](Relics) can be created when an [Apostle%20%28Civ6%29](Apostle) with the [Martyr%20%28Civ6%29](Martyr) promotion dies in [Theological%20Combat%20%28Civ6%29](theological combat). Relics generate Religious Tourism, specifically contributing +8 Tourism. The Reliquaries religious belief increases output of Relics to +24 Tourism. Relics in the city with [St.%20Basil%27s%20Cathedral%20%28Civ6%29](St. Basil's Cathedral) receive an extra +8 Tourism, meaning if you have Reliquaries religious belief, each Relic in the city with St. Basil's Cathedral will grant +32 Tourism. The Wonder [Mont%20St.%20Michel%20%28Civ6%29](Mont St. Michel) is helpful for collecting relics since it provides 2 Relic slots and grants newly created Apostles the Martyr promotion automatically.
Great Works, Artifacts and Relics can only be created or housed if your civilization has appropriate building types, and free slots, to hold the item - for example, an [Art%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Art Museum) for a Great Work of Art or an [Amphitheater%20%28Civ6%29](Amphitheater) for a Great Work of Writing.
Tile Improvements.
Aside from National Parks, improvements must be within a city's workable area to provide Tourism.
The Flight technology.
Once [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight) is discovered, a number of new sources of Tourism become available:
In the case of tile improvements that generate Tourism with Flight, base terrain and resources do not affect their Tourism output. For example, a Kampung built on a Coast tile adjacent to unimproved and owned by a city without a Lighthouse doesn't produce Tourism even though a Coast tile produces 1 , and a Plantation built on doesn't produce Tourism even though produces 1 . Similarly, a [Nubian%20Pyramid%20%28Civ6%29](Nubian Pyramid) built next to a [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square) doesn't produce Tourism because the Nubian Pyramid isn't tagged as capable of producing Tourism.
Rock Bands in "Gathering Storm".
"" introduces a brand new civilian unit designed to apply concentrated bursts of Tourism to a single civilization. [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) may perform one or more concerts in foreign lands which resist your cultural appeal. While the other standard sources of Tourism continue applying their steady pressure, strategic use of Rock Bands in the late game can significantly speed up your progress towards a Cultural Victory!
Tourism Modifiers.
Any Cultural Victory will require careful application of Tourism modifiers. Compounding of modifiers significantly increase the Tourism output above its base level. Here we will describe National Modifiers (which affect your Tourism output irrespective of international affairs) and International Modifiers (which are applied to national Tourism output to determine Tourism pressure on each individual foreign civilization).
National Modifiers.
The modifiers below directly apply to the base level of Tourism output from specific types of items. National Modifiers are often multiplied (not added together). Your civilization's total national Tourism output is shown in the main interface bar beside the brown suitcase.
International Modifiers.
After national modifiers have been applied to generate the national Tourism output, further modifiers affect the output to each individual civilization. International Modifiers are summed (not compounded) and calculated per each foreign civilization. Tourism output to each civilization can be seen on the Cultural Victory summary page by hovering over each civilization.
Different government penalty.
Having a different government type applies a percentage penalty to Tourism between civilizations.
There are two XML parameters involved in the formula for this penalty:
These parameters have changed once between vanilla "Civilization VI" and the "Gathering Storm" expansion.
The formula for calculating Tourism percentage penalty for having a different government type:
Base game penalty.
Values for OtherGovernmentIntolerance (BASE GAME):
Value for TOURISM_CONFLICTING_GOVERNMENT_MULTIPLIER = 3 (BASE GAME)
Base game examples:
"Gathering Storm" penalty.
Values for OtherGovernmentIntolerance (GATHERING STORM):
Value for TOURISM_CONFLICTING_GOVERNMENT_MULTIPLIER = 1 (GATHERING STORM)
"Gathering Storm" examples:
Example.
Suppose our [Mongolian%20%28Civ6%29](Mongolian) city has a themed Archaeological Museum, with Heritage Tourism and Online Communities applied, after we have discovered Computers and activated Mary Leakey's special ability. We have activated Sarah Breedlove's special ability and have Open Borders and a with [American%20%28Civ6%29](America), but we have different governments - [Democracy%20%28Civ6%29](Democracy) and [Communism%20%28Civ6%29](Communism).
The National Output is calculated from compounded modifiers:
The International Output is calculated from summed modifiers:
The total international modifier is +85%, giving a total output of +249.8, and since it always rounds down, +249 Tourism to America.
This demonstrates how in the latter stage of the game Cultural Victory is dominated by compounding multipliers and favorable international relations, making this simple themed Archaeological Museum generate +280 Tourism per turn.
Strategy.
Maximizing Tourism from Great Works of Art.
Much of the information here is originally from a [CivFanatics](CivFanatics) info page by Victoria, and has been updated and expounded upon by editors of this wiki. 
There are a total of 4 types of Great Works of Art:
The availability of each type of Great Work of Art is as follows (noting that the order of s appearing within an era is randomized every game):
Yields.
A single Great Work of Art produces a base yield of 3 and 2 Tourism, which doubles when it is themed. However, a second Great Work of Art from the same Artist in the same Museum produces only 1 and 1 Tourism, so try to avoid this by moving your s around to create Great Works in different Museums - otherwise, you'll have to wait 10 turns to move their Great Works of Art. Great Works of Art created by the s introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack) ([Kam%C4%81l%20ud-D%C4%ABn%20Behz%C4%81d%20%28Civ6%29](Kamāl ud-Dīn Behzād), [Hasegawa%20T%C5%8Dhaku%20%28Civ6%29](Hasegawa Tōhaku), and [Wassily%20Kandinsky%20%28Civ6%29](Wassily Kandinsky)) have a base yield of 3 and 4 Tourism instead but this yield still gets reduced to 1 and 1 Tourism if displayed in a Museum with another Great Work of Art from the same Artist. This restriction does not apply to other buildings (the [Queen%27s%20Bibliotheque%20%28Civ6%29](Queen's Bibliotheque), the [Bank%20%28Civ6%29](Bank) created by [Giovanni%20de%27%20Medici%20%28Civ6%29](Giovanni de' Medici), the [National%20History%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](National History Museum)) and [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders), so you can use these to store duplicates while keeping the base yield of those Great Works.
The base yields of Great Works of Art can be further modified by the following:
Arts versus archaeology.
s can be gained in advance, so when [Humanism%20%28Civ6%29](Humanism) is unlocked you can already slot Religious Art and possibly patronize additional s. This will allow for early and fast theming, which is the real benefit of arts over archaeology. You do not have to wait until [Natural%20History%20%28Civ6%29](Natural History) for Archaeologists and then pay 1600 or expend 400 to get one to then travel to dig up Artifacts. However, it is better to balance the number of [Art%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Art Museums) and [Archaeological%20Museum%20%28Civ6%29](Archaeological Museums) after the Industrial Era ends (i.e., all Religious Art is gone), since you are no longer threatened by the prospect that some of your Great Works might be rendered un-themeable. Simply put, if you have leftover Religious Art at this point, there is nothing you can do about that besides trading with your neighbors, which does not solely rely on you and your decisions anymore.
If you are far ahead in the race and can see yourself getting the first 3–4, it is worth buying some Art Museums if you can. These can normally be filled a lot faster than an Archaeological Museum, and you can theme all 3-4 of these early if you aim specifically for Religious Art. Overall, you have much more control over what types of Art you can create than what Artifacts of what civilizations and what eras. A Museum costs 1160 compared to 1600 for an Archaeologist, and you still have to build an Archaeological Museum for that. Museums give points regardless of type; however, having one Archaeological Museum before the Industrial Era ends is important since it boosts Natural History.
Regardless of your victory type, getting 3 Art Museums and 1 Archaeological Museum is worth it for s and for . Remember, once you have gained s, you can always sell Great Works if need be.
Reaching Humanism.
Getting the Humanism (earn a ) and therefore getting to Art Museums earlier is a big help. Unless you are playing as Kongo or Russia, this is unlikely to happen without running a few rounds of projects or buying a . A Cultural Victory, contrary to popular belief, can actually be achieved very early on, and is quite time dependent (before your opponents get a chance to establish a massive defense against your Tourism). s alone are not quite enough (especially with the "Gathering Storm" nerf); s are crucial to tip the balance.
Yield maximization and the Hermitage.
 Religious Art is your Tourism gold mine since it is the earliest themeable Tourism source. Never create Religious Art successively from the same in the same Art Museum, since 1 and 1 Tourism is nearly useless - you should have 3 Art Museums up as soon as possible. It is perfectly fine to just place all your religious works other places like the [Apadana%20%28Civ6%29](Apadana) and the [Hermitage%20%28Civ6%29](Hermitage), though they still cannot be moved until 10 turns have passed.
The Hermitage is useful to some degree, but not necessary unless you are playing for a lot of Great Works of Art. It costs 1450 and cannot theme your Works. If it can be auto-themed, then that would make it worth getting but it does not (so this Wonder is only strong under [Kristina%20%28Civ6%29](Kristina), and sometimes, [Eleanor%20of%20Aquitaine%20%28Civ6%29](Eleanor of Aquitaine) for the [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) effect). If you can build it early and fast, it is relatively useful to hold duplicate works, but even that does not really justify the high cost for such low amount of resulting Tourism and , except for when you have a Governor with the Curator title in that city. Besides, by this stage of the game, you should be generating enough to get to the better Tourism sources like [Ski%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Ski Resorts) relatively fast.
It is common to have other cultural civilizations (especially Russia and Kongo) in the game. You will need to run a lot of [Theater%20Square%20Performances%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Square Performances) projects to compete for s against them, especially during the Renaissance and Industrial Eras when Religious Art is up for grabs.