# Trade Confederation (Civ6)

Trade Confederation is an Economic [Policy%20Cards%20%28Civ6%29](Policy Card) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
This is a great Economic Policy for a "trader" [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) with lots of {{TradeRoute6}}s, as it will provide a passive boost to both its [Technologies%20%28Civ6%29](technological) and [Civics%20%28Civ6%29](civic) development. Note that it will affect only international {{TradeRoute6}}s (those connecting to another civilization's [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), or to [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states)), not domestic ones! You should consider using it only if most or all of your {{TradeRoute6}}s are international; otherwise you'll be wasting an {{EconomicPolicy6}} Economic slot.
The good about this Policy is that it doesn't require much planning to use as long as you assign your {{TradeRoute6}}s to the right destinations, and it also boosts both {{Science6}} and {{Culture6}} at the same time. The bad is that, unless you have 5 or more international {{TradeRoute6}}s, the boost isn't such a big deal. So, you should consider using Trade Confederation only in [Government%20%28Civ6%29](governments) with lots of {{EconomicPolicy6}} Economic slots, such as [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic). This way you can slot it permanently, while rotating other Policies as need calls.
Note also that Trade Confederation isn't recommended for nations which are perpetually at war, as their international {{TradeRoute6}}s are more prone to plundering.