# Trading (Civ5)

Trading is a vital concept in the "Civilization" series, as well as the real world, and it means the exchange of goods and services among the population. It is usually conducted by private entities, known as merchants, which occupy themselves with transporting goods from place to place, buying them in one and selling them in another. This way they help distribute goods from places they're being produced to places that need them, which is a vital part of the world economy.
Of course contemporary real-world trading is much more complex and is often done without anyone leaving their place, thanks to technology. Financial trading, for example, is done totally via computers... But we won't discuss such complex problems here.
In the game, trading is vital for maintaining the {{Gold5}} income of your empire, and the {{Happiness5}} of your subjects. It is also a way of obtaining vital [Resources%20%28Civ5%29%23Strategic%20resources](strategic resources) which your lands lack, etc. All in all, you will lose the game if you don't know how to trade, both when establishing Trade Routes and when negotiating trade deals with other nations.
Types of trading.
There are multiple types of trading in the game, all with different mechanics and ends. Learning how to activate and use each one is the key to economic success in the Civilization, so read carefully!
Domestic trading.
This refers to the natural exchange of goods within your own empire. The wise leaders have long understood that leaving the trade to flow free is the best way to both distribute goods across your empire, and to enrich the National Treasury, so domestic trading happens almost automatically. All the ruler needs to do is establish an infrastructural connection between the cities of the empire and the Capital - private traders then start using these connections to conduct their business. When a city gets connected to the trade network, a small icon will appear underneath its City banner to indicate this. 
For more information on the exact mechanics of opening domestic Trade Routes (AKA 'City connections'), read [Trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](this) article.
Domestic trade has several uses:
International trading.
This is a new way of trading, introduced in [Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World). It consists of a mixed private-governmental enterprise, where the government supplies a Trading Unit and infrastructure to Private merchants, which then they use to conduct trade with target cities, appointed by the government. Thanks to the system, your merchants are able to conduct trade with other civilizations or City-States! For the particular mechanics of the enterprise, check the [International%20trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](International trade route article), but be aware that establishing international trade routes requires both free trading slots (developed through technology) and the respective Trade Units available. It also requires the physical closeness of the source and target cities.
International trading has the following benefits:
Trading deals.
The last type of trading, and the most complex one, is Trading deals that you set with other nations. This is done without any pre-conditions (you don't need to establish any sort of network), although of course you need to be at peace with your trade partner. Establishing trade deals is the result of diplomatic negotiations, initiated either by you or your partner, in which both sides agree to exchange goods or {{GoldIcon5}} for a set amount of 30 turns. In the real world these sort of negotiations are one of the most frequent topics of diplomatic conversations, although it usually comes to agreements establishing general rules for trading, rather than the direct exchange of goods.
All of the above items, or combination of them, are allowed in Trading Deals. For example, you can trade a Luxury resource for another Luxury, or for {{GoldIcon5}}; or you may offer {{GoldIcon5}} per turn, a Luxury resource and some Strategic resources in exchange for a vote in the World Congress. Or you may both exchange a Research Agreement, without additional items.
Trading improvements.
There are a number of buildings and technologies you will need to improve your trading capabilities (they only act for Domestic and International Trade Routes; Trading Deals depend entirely on negotiations):
Also, some techs extend the range of Trade routes, allowing your units to reach cities further away.
Finally, you could improve trade significantly via Social Policies: 
Strategy.
Trading is vital for your Empire's thriving, because it is the main source of {{Gold5}}. You need Gold to maintain your buildings, your army, etc. As of [Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World) it is now incredibly difficult to maintain a positive {{GoldIcon5}} flow while only producing {{GoldIcon5}} off the land. With the progress of your Empire, more and more {{GoldIcon5}} is needed to maintain your empire. This is because you keep building Buildings in your cities, and you keep upgrading the units of your army (which get more expensive to maintain as they go up the ladder).
Early game.
Your first trading is commonly done (and should be done) via a Trading Deal with one of your neighbors, in the first 30 turns or so, and will consist of selling an excess Luxury you have access to. The reason why it can't be done by establishing Trade Routes is simple - you don't have the tech, and the Units to do that. It's much easier (and more important) to produce a [Worker%20%28Civ5%29](Worker) in these first turns, and use it to improve the resources in your starting city, then to try and develop the tech and produce a Trade Unit. So, stick to that Worker, research the necessary techs to access the Luxuries you've been given in your starting location, and build the necessary Improvements. Every starting location has access to multiple nodes of Luxuries, so try to Improve most, or all of them, then try selling the excesses to the civilizations you've met (remember, you only need 1 count of each Luxury to get the {{HappinessIcon5}} boost for your people). Be careful to whom you sell - many civilizations won't be able to offer you enough money, so try to sell to the highest bidder. They usually won't even try to barter.
Next you should try to develop your Domestic trading by establishing City Connections. You need [The%20Wheel%20%28Civ5%29](The Wheel) for that, and Workers building [Road%20%28Civ5%29](Roads) between your cities. Around turn 80 or so you should've done that - it's both important for your {{GoldIcon5}} balance, and for the mobility of your forces across your emerging empire.
You should also establish your first International Trade routes - produce the necessary Trading Units ([Caravan%20%28Civ5%29](Caravans) or [Cargo%20ship%20%28Civ5%29](Cargo ships)) and choose the most lucrative locations they can reach. Note that there are typically few reachable cities you can trade with at that stage - you haven't developed the necessary tech and infrastructure to extend the range of your Trade Routes; so just take what you can and don't wait. Barbarians will be a great risk to your first Trade Routes, because of your early inability to control terrain and their roaming free and appearing with no warning whatsoever. What's more, if a Barbarian plunders a Trade Route, you not only lose the income (and have to build again the Trade Unit, which in the early game is a pain in the ass), but they also convert your Unit into a Barbarian, so that you now have more enemies to deal with! To avoid this unpleasant situation, try to spare some of your units to guard the Trade Routes you've established.
Don't establish Domestic Trade Routes, even if you can!!! You can't afford to lose Trade slots for those yet, the {{GoldIcon5}} has to flow!
It is a real danger to go bankrupt in the beginning of the game in [Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World), so take the above advice seriously and pay attention to your {{GoldIcon5}} balance! The biggest danger is Units accumulation, so don't turn the conquering Overlord and amass a large army, because this will bankrupt you even faster! Or rather, do that only if you're ready to balance out the expenses that an army brings.
A couple of early game Wonders will help you considerably with trading - [Colossus%20%28Civ5%29](Colossus) and [Petra%20%28Civ5%29](Petra) will both provide you with a free trading slot and Unit (the first one - a Cargo ship, the second - a Caravan), as well as additional {{GoldIcon5}} production for their cities.
Middle game.
With extending your Empire in the Middle game come more expenses, for Buildings, Units, etc. You may also find yourself in need of additional access to Luxuries to maintain {{HappinessIcon5}}. This means that you need to make full use of Trading now. Research [Compass%20%28Civ5%29](Compass) and connect any island cities with [Harbor%20%28Civ5%29](Harbors) to complete your Domestic trade network and access its full potential; use infrastructural improvements to extend the range of your International trade routes and find the most lucrative destinations for International trade. Finally, make such Trading deals as to earn both {{GoldIcon5}} and Luxuries you lack. Try to expand your Empire in such ways as to open up new Trading horizons, by settling cities in such locations as to allow for new Trade Routes to reach new cities (if, of course, you don't have other, more pressing goals when settling new cities).
At this point you may start establishing Domestic Trade Routes to cities whose growth you wish to help. However, always keep in mind that you need to keep your overall {{GoldIcon5}} balance, and don't get too excited. You should have at least 3 - 4 lucrative Trade Routes at all times.
You should also try at this point to buy influence with City-States - this will provide you with additional Resources for your Empire. You can then sell away your own Resources for more {{GoldIcon5}} income. Keep in mind, however, that you have to maintain your Alliances, so as not to risk a sudden drop in {{HappinessIcon5}} or Combat effectiveness when you lose the additional Resources.
Of course, it is not always easy to do all that - some civilizations like the [Venetian%20%28Civ5%29](Venetians) have natural advantages at trading and will be able to make much more use of it than others. Also, keep in mind that being particularly warlike may always damage your trading options - your Trade Routes may get plundered by enemy nations, or you may simply run out of potential trading partners.
Late game.
Not much changes in late game trading, compared to the middle game, except the scope of your trading activities. You will have access to considerably more resources (although you will also need considerably more), your Trade Routes should now be able to span entire continents and oceans and connect to cities halfway across the globe. At this point a single Trade Route may net you as much as 30 or more {{GoldIcon5}} per turn, and often a single Trade Route may mean the difference between a positive and negative gold flow, so consider well the wars you start, and try to diversify your trading partners so as not to risk losing large chunks of your income when somebody declares war to you unexpectedly and plunders your trade routes. Fortunately, at this point it's not difficult to replace lost Trade Units.
Another major concern in the late game becomes the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World congress), and the attempts of your enemies to hit your trading via Embargo resolutions. They can Embargo your civilization, so that you can't form Trade Routes with other civilizations (and vice-versa), or they can embargo City-States (so no Trade Routes with City-States), or a particular Luxury resource important to your trade. Be wary of every proposal, and when you see somebody's trying to cut off your income, fight back by forming a diplomatic alliance to shoot down the proposal. This will involve sending [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29%23Diplomats](Diplomats) to other nations and negotiating their support in the upcoming vote in the Congress. You may also wish to negotiate support for other Resolutions that will benefit you, which will involve more Trading. All in all, Trading Deals become very important in the end game, not because of the money they provide, but more because of resources and diplomatic support in the Congress.