# Trade Route (Civ6)

 Trade Routes represent the trade activities of [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations), either between their own [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) or with foreign civilizations. They are an essential activity which provides multiple benefits: they boost , and , among other yields, create [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](roads) when running on land, and provide increased [Diplomacy%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomatic%20Visibility](Diplomatic Visibility) with other civilizations.
 Trade Routes and Trading Capacity are always displayed in the stats ribbon in the upper left part of the screen.
Mechanics.
Requirements.
In order to establish a Trade Route you need free Trading Capacity of at least 1 (that is, the number of currently active Trade Routes must be less than your total Trading Capacity), a [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Trader) [Units%20%28Civ6%29](unit) and at least 1 valid destination city.
Traders may establish routes over land and sea, but embarkation requires [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation).
Trading Capacity.
Trading Capacity is the maximum number of Trade Routes you can have at the same time. The [Foreign%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Foreign Trade) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) (one of the earliest of the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era)) grants a Trading Capacity of one, meaning that your empire can have one Trade Route at a time. Each city with a [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hub) or a [Harbor%20%28Civ6%29](Harbor) (or, from "" onwards, a [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market) or a [Lighthouse%20%28Civ6%29](Lighthouse)) increases a civilization's Trading Capacity by one. These bonuses are not cumulative: a city with both a Commercial Hub/Market and a Harbor/Lighthouse adds only one Trading Capacity, not two.
Other sources of Trading Capacity include the following:
Each [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Trader) services one Trade Route. For this reason, when the number of Traders equals the Trading Capacity you cannot build more Traders. Still, there are exceptional situations in which the number of Traders (and active Trade Routes) can exceed the Trading Capacity. This happens when your Trading Capacity suddenly decreases below the number of Traders/routes you have. Trading Capacity may decrease, for example, in vanilla "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" when you change [Government%20%28Civ6%29](governments) from [Merchant%20Republic%20%28Civ6%29](Merchant Republic) to something else (which reduces your Trading Capacity by 2); when your commercial infrastructure is pillaged by enemy units or [Disasters%20%28Civ6%29](disasters), or when you lose cities with commercial infrastructure. All the Trade Routes that were active when the decrease in Trading Capacity happened remain active. This means that the number of Trade Routes can actually exceed the Trading Capacity for a few turns. However, the next Trader(s) to finish a Trade Route will be unable to start a new route and will be forced to stay inactive. They will recover their ability to create Trade Routes once you increase your Trading Capacity again.
Establishing Trade Routes.
You create Trade Routes by selecting a [Trader%20%28Civ6%29](Trader) which is currently free (i.e., not servicing a Trade Route), an origin city, and a destination city.
Choosing an origin city.
To start, you need an origin city: this can be any city in your civilization which is physically able to connect to your intended destination city. If you have a particular destination city in mind, make sure the origin city is in range of it, and there is a viable route between the two. Note that the Trader will automatically start the new route from the city he's currently in - if the current city the Trader is in doesn't suit you, move the Trader using the Transfer to another city button in its Command tab. (This will take one turn.)
Bear in mind that all the Trade Route's benefits will apply directly to the origin city! So, if you wish to boost a particular city's basic yields, move the Trader unit to this city first, before establishing the new Trade Route. This is often the case when establishing domestic Trade Routes (whose main yields are and and fit nicely the purpose of aiding the basic development of any city). In the case of international Trade Routes, whose benefits concentrate on the empire-wide yields, your main concern should be the potential destinations, and the trajectory the future route will have (e.g., if there are Barbarians in the middle of the route). Yields like and benefit your entire empire, but be aware that the origin city's modifiers apply to the Trade Route's effectiveness.
Choosing destination city.
Next, choose a destination city from the list in the left part of the screen. Valid destinations can be foreign cities, [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states), or your own cities, but must meet the following requirements:
In order for your Trader to be able to embark, you need additional technology and infrastructure requirements:
For each potential destination, you will see projected income and benefits, as well as the number of turns the route will run. While the menu with the available destinations is open, each potential route trajectory is shown as a white line on the map. Trade Routes may traverse hostile territory, although they run a great risk of being plundered if they do.
Finally, you may choose to Repeat the last route (if there was any). This will automatically select the destination city of the last route this Trader performed and activate the route.
Each Trade Route runs for a set number of turns, after which it is considered finished. Traders move to the destination city and then return to its city of origin. When they complete this round journey s for your civilization are created both in the destination and in the origin city, if they didn't exist already.
Traders move at a speed of one tile per turn, both on land and at sea. This is the rate at which they create roads. Even though it takes quite a few turns for a Trader to reach its destination and return, the route itself provides its benefits (, , etc.) from the turn you establish it, and continues to do so until its duration runs out.
Duration.
How long Trade Routes run is dependent on [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](game speed). On Standard game speed, a route runs for a minimum of 21 turns and ends only when the Trader returns to its origin city, completing a round trip. For short Trade Routes, this means a Trader will have to complete multiple round trips. (Note that the in-game UI shows only the absolute distance between the cities, not the real Trade Route duration.)
In "Gathering Storm", the current [World%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](World Era) retroactively adds additional turns to the Trade Route's minimum duration (TradeRouteMinimumEndTurnChange parameter), as shown in the table below. This makes it much harder to establish s in the mid- to end game.
There is nothing you can do to choose a specific path for your Traders to travel on when establishing Trade Routes. If there are multiple possible paths between two cities, the game will automatically pick out one. When establishing internal Trade Routes, the game will choose the shortest path. Regarding international Trade Routes, it will try to maximize the output by making the Trader travel through as many s, [Mountain%20Tunnel%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain Tunnels), [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals), and [Railroad%20%28Civ6%29](Railroads) as possible. In all cases the game engine will attempt to use already existing infrastructure (Roads, Canals, etc.), which makes it a bit difficult to shape the Road network of your empire exactly as you want it, especially in the middle and late game. Fortunately, at this point you are already able to use a [Military%20Engineer%20%28Civ6%29](Military Engineer) to build Roads exactly where you need them.
The following table gives examples of different route lengths (on Standard speed) for the Ancient and [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era). Breakpoints are bolded.
Trading range and Trading Posts.
Trading range is the measure of how many tiles from its current base a Trader is able to reach, so as to establish routes. Note that, unlike "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", Trade Route range cannot be enhanced via technology! The only way to do it is via infrastructure - more specifically, the new s (see below). This makes it imperative to think strategically when establishing Trade Routes - sometimes it is worth it to establish a route which won't benefit you much, but when finished, will allow you to reach other parts of the world!
The base range for land trade routes is 15 tiles. A Trader unit sent over land will automatically construct a road (or upgrade an existing road, if your technology is more advanced) between the cities along the route trajectory.
The base range for sea trade routes is 30 tiles. Remember that you need the [Celestial%20Navigation%20%28Civ6%29](Celestial Navigation) tech in order to be able to establish sea trade routes. Also note that routes may switch between movement modes - the route may start in an inland city, then go to a [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) city (or to a city with a Harbor), move over sea to another city with a Harbor, then continue on land to its destination. As long as the destination is within the overall range of the route, switching back and forth between modalities is possible. Also, remember that both the origin city and the destination city require maritime access (either being a coastal city, or a Harbor, or, in "Gathering Storm", a Canal or the Panama Canal) in order to establish sea Trade Routes or have Traders switching between land and sea. [Portuguese%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal) gains +50% range for sea trade routes and does not require Celestial Navigation to establish them.
s are a new type of infrastructure, specifically designed to ensure logistical support of your Traders in faraway lands. As mentioned above, s are automatically constructed in the destination and source city of every finished Trade Route (or of every started Trade Route as [Mongolian%20%28Civ6%29](Mongolia), and in every founded or conquered city as [Roman%20%28Civ6%29](Rome)). Future routes (both land and sea) that pass through these cities will have extended reach - they will effectively reset their range at the . You can make use of this to reach farther and farther in the world with your Traders! When you are aiming to establish trading relations with a faraway city, or a city on a new continent, look for a route which will reach the closest possible city to your goal, then establish a Trade Route to it (even though the yields won't be as beneficial as other choices you have). After the route duration expires, a will be established and you will eventually be able to reach your destination.
s add 1 each to the route's yield. Thus, with the passage of time, your routes become ever more effective.
Trader pathing.
When moving, Traders will always try to pass through tiles with the lowest cost possible. For this reason, Traders will prioritize using the existing road network to reach their destination even if it means taking detours, and if no roads are available, they will go out of their way to avoid [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) and features even if they have to travel farther. This behavior makes it possible for a city 15 hexes away to be an invalid destination because the Trader would have preferred a different (albeit longer) path. The pathing AI can be influenced to take certain paths by strategically creating Trade Routes or using Military Engineers, but this rarely comes into play. Paths between two cities can be predicted by considering the Trader to be a unit with infinite that takes terrain cost into account.
A benefit of this pathing AI is that we end up with a more aesthetically pleasing road network (i.e., fewer parallel roads and crossroads, more sloping paths around hills and woodlands).
Potential destinations for trade.
There are two types of Trade Routes you can establish: domestic (or internal) routes, which run between two of your own cities; and international routes, which run between one of your cities and either another civilization's city or a city-state. The results are slightly different, although trading with foreign cities or city-states is largely the same. Domestic routes mainly provide and , while international routes mainly provide , along with other yield types which depend heavily on the types of and [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resources) the target city has. This separation is also important when considering certain [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) effects (see below).
You cannot trade with cities of a civilization with which you're at war. When war is declared, any existing Trade Routes between the two civilizations are cancelled, and the Traders servicing them are immediately recalled to their origin cities. The same happens when a destination (or an origin city) becomes a [Free%20City%20%28Civ6%29](Free City) due to [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) problems. Note that Trade Routes are "not" cancelled if they run through a hostile civilization's territory to a city or city-state with which you can still trade, and become viable targets for war plundering!
Also, opening a Trade Route to the city is often requested by [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states) as a Quest.
Benefits of trade.
 Trade Routes are always sent from the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) of their origin to that one of their destination, but they benefit from all districts that exist in the destination city's territory. Thus, a route to a specific city may start with a very negligible yield, but as that city builds new districts or special improvements, the yields of the route automatically increase.
Note that at all times there may exist only one route between Cities A and B. You can establish a new route to City A starting from City B, but you won't be able to establish another route from A to B until the first one's duration runs out.
Domestic trade.
Domestic Trade Routes can be established between your own cities, as long as they are in range of each other.
When you start a domestic Trade Route, the city of origin will receive and , depending on the districts at the place the route is going. Use domestic routes to boost the basic performance of any city within your empire, especially newly established ones. Cities constructing [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonders) also benefit greatly - try to connect them to your most advanced industrial city.
International trade.
International Trade Routes can be established with rival civilizations whose cities are within range. The yields they provide are much more varied: all such routes will provide , but depending on the districts at their destination, they will also provide , , , and also and on occasion.
Aside from providing income, international Trade Routes also serve as a sort of social connection. First, trading provides the most basic form of [Espionage%20%28Civ6%29](espionage), as rumors will trickle down the routes enabling you to learn of developments in rival civilizations, providing 1 level of [Diplomatic%20Visibility%20and%20Gossip%20%28Civ6%29](diplomatic visibility). Second, traders will talk freely about the wonders of your civilization, which provides a multiplier to your output to the other civilization!
You can also establish Trade Routes with city-states. They work much the same as routes with other civilizations (without the extra social effects, of course).
Trade yields based on districts.
Below is a table of all effects the various districts add to a Trade Route's total yield. The civilization-specific versions of the districts have the same yield as the respective generic district they replace.
Trade yields boosters.
There are several ways to boost performance of your Trade Routes:
Finally, a number of policy cards enhance your routes in various ways. The following increase the yields of all routes (domestic and international):
The following policies work for domestic routes only:
The following policies work for international routes only:
In "Gathering Storm", the effects of Arsenal of Democracy are transferred to [Democracy%20%28Civ6%29](Democracy), and Collectivization is available only after adopting [Communism%20%28Civ6%29](Communism). Additionally, Wisselbanken also works on city-states of which the sender is Suzerain.
Other effects of Trade Routes.
Besides yield boosts for your cities, Trade Routes also have other important effects:
Plundering Trade Routes.
 Trade Routes are vulnerable to attack, and unguarded ones may be plundered by [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians) and units belonging to civilizations with which you are at war. If an enemy unit enters a tile that one of your Traders currently occupies, it can plunder the route, which destroys the Trader and rewards the enemy unit's owner with . This action costs all of the unit's remaining points, meaning the unit can move and plunder in the same turn. A fast unit (with at least 4 MP) might be able to pillage a district or improvement (3 MP) and plunder a Trade Route in the same turn. Try to protect your water based Trade Routes with some strong [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval units).
Note that when you go to war with a civilization, all Trade Routes with them are cancelled, but you do not lose the Traders - instead, you get to reassign them.
Comparison with other games.
 Trade Routes in "Civilization VI" are similar to their counterparts in ' and '. However, the role of Trade Routes in "Civilization VI" is greatly expanded.
The Trader is similar to the [Trade%20Convoy%20%28CivBE%29](Trade Convoy) in "".