# Trade route (Civ5)

Vanilla "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" and "[Gods%20%26amp%3B%20Kings](Gods &amp; Kings)" Trade Routes.
A {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Route is a link formed between a civilization's [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) and its {{Capital5}}, which traders regularly use to move and conduct their trading. This might happen via land, using {{PageIcon5|road|20}}s, {{SureIcon5|railroad (improvement)|20}} [Railroad%20%28improvement%29%20%28Civ5%29](railroads), or via sea, using {{PageIcon5|Harbor|20}}s. A {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Route is open with a city if one of the above-mentioned infrastructures is in place at the beginning of your turn.
Note that for the {{Capital5}} to be accessible by sea, it needs either a {{PageIcon5|Harbor|20}} built in it, or it needs a road/railroad connection to another city with a {{PageIcon5|Harbor|20}}. So, for example, a connection won't be formed if the peripheral cities have {{PageIcon5|Harbor|20}}s, but the {{Capital5}} itself has no sea access.
If an enemy pillages a road or uses ships to blockade a [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) city and there are no other connections to the {{Capital5}}, the {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Routes will be lost until the roads are repaired or the ships leave or are destroyed.
Once formed, {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Routes earn certain amount of {{Gold5}} for the civilization. Every tile with a road or railroad costs {{Gold5}} per turn, meaning not all {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Routes are necessarily profitable. The {{Gold5}} output for any {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Route between a {{Capital5}} and a city is:
formula_1
For example, with a {{Capital5}} of 6 {{Citizen5}}s, a city with 4 {{Citizen5}}s produces 4.3 {{Gold5}} per turn, while a city with 5 {{Citizen5}}s produces 5.4 {{Gold5}} per turn.
Building [Machu%20Picchu%20%28Civ5%29](Machu Picchu) increases {{Gold5}} by 25% from each {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Route. Prior to "", [Arabian%20%28Civ5%29](Arabia) increases the {{Gold5}} output of each {{TradeRouteIcon5}} Trade Route by 1.
"[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)" Trade Routes.
In this expansion pack, trading has been redefined by introducing a new type of trade routes: {{InternationalTrade5}} routes. Traditional trade routes between your own cities still exist, but have been renamed {{CityConnectionIcon5}} City Connections, and function the same way as before. We can also think of them now as "Domestic Trading," done automatically as soon as you establish an infrastructural connection between a city and your {{Capital5}}.
The new type of trade routes may be labeled "{{InternationalTrade5}}" and are established manually - not only within your own civilization, but also with other civilizations or even {{City-State5}}s. Since in "" {{Gold5}} production from terrain is significantly reduced, the new trade routes become vital for maintaining your finances. Because of the complexity of the new system, it enjoys [International%20trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](a separate article).