# Trading Dome (Civ6)

+1 {{Gold6}} for every adjacent [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](Luxury resource). 
International {{TradeRoute6}}s sent from cities with Trading Domes generate +1 more {{Gold6}} for each Trading Dome present. 
The Trading Dome is a special [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be built by a player that is the [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) of the [Samarkand%20%28Civ6%29](Samarkand) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state).
Strategy.
Among all city-state tile improvements, the Trading Dome is by far the worst one. It is incredibly one-dimensional, as the only yield it grants is {{Gold6}}. The Trading Dome poses the same issue as the [Kurgan%20%28Civ6%29](Kurgan) or the [Ziggurat%20%28Civ6%29](Ziggurat): the total effects of the improvement will be trivial if there are too few, but the growth and productivity of the city will be stunted if there are too many, since none of these improvements provide any {{Food6}}, {{Production6}}, or {{Housing6}}. Moreover, {{Gold6}} is the least valuable currency in the game in spite of its versatility. 1 {{Gold6}} is worth half as much as 1 {{Faith6}} in purchasing, cannot compare to the value of 1 {{Science6}} or {{Culture6}}, and is the easiest yield to generate in great abundance.
The bonus to international {{TradeRoute6}}s is even more trivial. [Bandar%20Brunei%20%28Civ6%29](Bandar Brunei), [Venice%20%28Civ6%29](Venice), and [Hunza%20%28Civ6%29](Hunza) provide similar bonuses, albeit with much greater efficiency and without requiring you to invest space or {{BuildCharges6}} build charges, and these three city-states aren't even among the most outstanding city-states to begin with. Overall, the limited usefulness of the Trading Dome puts Samarkand very close to the bottom in the power ranking of city-states, and sending any non-free {{Envoy6}} there is discouraged.
If, however, you become Samarkand's Suzerain and want to make optimal use of Trading Domes, you can do so by designating one city as a trading hub, much as you would when playing as [Mansa%20Musa%20%28Civ6%29](Mansa Musa) or after building [Great%20Zimbabwe%20%28Civ6%29](Great Zimbabwe). It doesn't matter if the city is small because all you need is space for tile improvements. If you have five {{TradeRoute6}}s running from that city, a single [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builder's) worth of Trading Domes will yield +15 {{Gold6}}, a second Builder will give you +30 {{Gold6}}, and so forth. Since there are so many ways to either obtain Builders more quickly and easily or give them more {{BuildCharges6}} build charges (e.g., [Ilkum%20%28Civ6%29](Ilkum), [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang), and the [Ancestral%20Hall%20%28Civ6%29](Ancestral Hall)), for a small investment, you can grow your {{Gold6}} income exponentially.