# Treasure Fleets (Civ5)

Treasure Fleets is a [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policy) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". It was added in "[Brave%20New%20World](Brave New World)". It is part of the [Exploration%20%28Civ5%29](Exploration) tree and requires [Merchant%20Navy%20%28Civ5%29](Merchant Navy).
When the amount of wealth transported by sea becomes too great and too tempting for pirates and the like, the best strategy is to combine the different merchant ships into single, well-protected treasure fleets. Similar to the land-based wagon trains, these fleets consist of many cargo ships which transport not only goods and gold, but also the provisions needed for long trips, and the mariners needed to defend them against those with evil intentions. These treasure fleets are then much more effective at long-distance trading than single cargo ships that are usually deployed by non-seafaring nations. 
Strategy.
This level 3 Policy is not that exciting - the potential boost from [Merchant%20Navy%20%28Civ5%29](Merchant Navy) is greater, even without considering its other effect. Still, it provides a direct increase in your wealth. After adopting it, you should focus on establishing sea-based [International%20trade%20route%20%28Civ5%29](trade routes) to make the most of the Policy's benefits. 
Take this Policy as the fourth in the tree, unless you intend to enter sea battles soon. In this case, you should take [Navigation%20School%20%28Civ5%29](Navigation School) for the free [Great%20Admiral%20%28Civ5%29](Great Admiral), and take Treasure Fleets last to finish the tree. 