# Tribal Village (Civ6)

Tribal Villages (also known as goody huts) are inhabited by non-civilized natives who, unlike [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians), are friendly to [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations). They utilize the same mechanics as [Ancient%20Ruins%20%28Civ5%29](Ancient Ruins) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" - the first civilization whose [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit) enters their [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) receives some kind of bonus. The village is removed from the game immediately afterwards, meaning that this is a one-time bonus which will only be given to the first civilization to find and "activate" the village. Tribal Villages spawn randomly across the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map) at the start of a game. Recon units gain +5 XP when activating a tribal village. [Sumerians%20%28Civ6%29](Sumerians) get a Tribal Village reward every time they capture a [Barbarian%20Outpost%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarian Outpost).
If the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode) is enabled, discovering a Tribal Village has a chance to reveal the [Voidsingers%20%28Civ6%29](Voidsingers).
There are 7 types of Tribal Villages: Culture, Gold, Faith, Military, Science, Survivors, and Diplomacy. Each type has the same probability of popping up. When a village's type is determined, then the bonus type is drawn with probabilities given in the table below.
Bonuses vary wildly, and some of them depend on which turn the game is currently in. In other words, the most powerful bonuses only become available at later stages of the game ( Turn 40+). Below is a list of known bonuses bestowed by Tribal Villages:
Civilopedia entry.
Tribal villages were where the unwashed, uncivilized lived. Out beyond the pale. When explorers from “civilized” places arrived in these villages, the natives often greeted them with open arms, gifts, information, awe and respect. Tribal villages were distinguished from civilized settlements by a number of factors – their faiths tended to be experiential, their government local, their economies barter-based, their laws commonsensical, their organizations cooperative (rather than competitive), their social structures straightforward, their families extended, and their culture practical. In fact, some of these tribal villages evolved into cities, where none of that primitivism survived.