# Tribal Village (Civ4)

A Tribal Village is a feature, technically an [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ4%29](Improvement), representing small uncivilized Villages. Tribal Villages are randomly placed on the map when it is generated; they do not appear during play. The first civilization to expand cultural borders onto, or to move any [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ4](unit) into the [Tile%20%28Civ4%29](tile) where a hut is will get a random benefit (or sometimes release a bunch of [Barbarian%20%28Civ4%29](barbarians)). Tribal Villages are often called "goody huts" by players, and the process of clearing the village and obtaining its reward is occasionally referred to as "popping a hut."
Goodies.
There are several outcomes possible when popping a hut: a new [Warrior%20%28Civ4%29](Warrior) or [Scout%20%28Civ4%29](Scout) unit, maps, [Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28Civ4%29](gold), etc. Which outcome a human player gets depends on several things, but primarily the game's [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ4%29](difficulty level) (one gets better results on easier levels), and on whether or not a Scout (or [Explorer%20%28Civ4%29](Explorer)) is used to pop the hut. The following table shows the probability of various possible outcomes, by difficulty level:
The AI is always on "Noble" for this purpose (and many others). Some of the outcomes above are not valid in some circumstances:
In the case where an outcome is not valid, the game "rerolls" the outcome up to 10 times until it gets a valid one. If no valid outcome is found the hut just disappears without anything happening.
Technologies.
List of technologies which can be "researched" from Goody Huts (in "").
Huts and Barbarians.
When a Tribal Village is on a tile that the game has linked as a good place for a city, barbarians will sometimes stop there and "guard" the village. When a barbarian is doing this, it will not move or attack even if a unit moves adjacent to it. Eventually such a village can be turned into a barbarian city, which eliminates the hut. A guarded village can be popped by cultural border expansion, by attacking and defeating the guard unit, or by moving a Spy into it.