# Tsikhe (Civ6)

+100% {{Faith6}} and {{Tourism6}} when in a Golden Age.
The Tsikhe is a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building) of the [Georgian%20%28Civ6%29](Georgian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". It is built in the [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Center) and replaces the [Renaissance%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Walls).
Strategy.
After numerous buffs, the Tsikhe has been transformed from a ridiculously underwhelming building into a safeguard that dissuades even the most bloodthirsty warlords from invading Georgia. It now provides twice the outer defense of the standard Renaissance Walls, turning Georgian cities into impenetrable fortresses. The latest buff towards Georgia's civilization ability (+50% {{Production6}} towards [Walls%20%28Civ6%29](walls)) makes this building even more potent. Moreover, it plays strongly to the Georgian unique ability of chaining multiple Golden Ages. Considering that the Tsikhe is built in the City Center (meaning that it can be built in every city), combined with [Tamar%20%28Civ6%29](Tamar's) leader ability, you are looking at a significant {{Faith6}} and {{Tourism6}} output as long as you can continue your Golden Ages. After the general buff towards the Renaissance Walls that make them immune to [Siege%20Tower%20%28Civ6%29](Siege Towers) and [Battering%20Ram%20%28Civ6%29](Battering Rams), the Tsikhe is so tanky that it can withstand even rounds of [Bombard%20%28Civ6%29](Bombards). However, considering that this is the only piece of unique infrastructure that can be rendered obsolete with technological research, make sure you delay researching [Steel%20%28Civ6%29](Steel) until you build your Tsikhe in every city. With its boosted {{Faith6}} and {{Tourism6}} output in Golden Ages, this building can contribute meaningfully to a Cultural Victory, if you can make the best out of your civilization ability to chain Golden Ages.
Urban Defenses sets outer defense strength to 400 which nullifies Tsikhe's +100 outer defense strength advantage over Renaissance walls.
[Valletta%20%28Civ6%29](Valletta's) [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerain) bonus has excellent synergy with Georgia, since it allows you to instantly purchase walls and other City Center buildings with your massive {{Faith6}} income rather than dedicating {{Production6}} and {{Turn6}} Turns toward building them. If Valletta isn't present in a game under the "Gathering Storm" ruleset, you can build your Tsikhe with maximum efficiency by slotting [Limes%20%28Civ6%29](Limes) and having an active Urban Development Treaty (a [World%20Congress%20%28Civ6%29](World Congress) resolution) for City Center buildings. These, when combined with your civilization ability, will yield a 250% {{Production6}} bonus.
Conversely, [Akkad%20%28Civ6%29](Akkad's) Suzerain bonus will render your Tsikhe (and all other walls) useless against melee and anti-cavalry units' attacks. If Akkad is in the game, do your best to deprive your opponents of its bonus, or even conquer it if its location makes doing so feasible.