# Turn (Civ2)

A game of "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)" progresses by turns, representing variable intervals of time within the setting (usually decades, narrowing to individual years in late play). Each {{Link|2|Civilizations|player}} conducts a set of actions during a turn, with their effects resolved either during the turn itself, or at the start of the next turn.
If no {{Link|2|victory}} has been claimed after a [%23Calendar](certain number) of turns, the civilization's leader "retires" and its standing score is entered into the [Hall%20of%20Fame](Hall of Fame). The player can continue the game beyond this point, but no further score changes will be submitted.
Order of operations.
A turn updates in two main stages: "globally" at the start of the calendar change, and then in discrete cycles for each civilization in active play. Global turn operations include calculating {{Link|2|global warming}}, processing {{Link|2|Events|scripted events}}, and publishing [Histories](Histories).
Each civilization's turn consists of two phases. The first, or "update" phase, resolves automated economic mechanics, namely, {{Link|2|city}} {{Link|2|maintenance}}, {{Link|2|growth}} and {{Link|2|production}}; {{Link|2|Science|research}} progress; and {{Link|2|unit}} repair. The second, or "orders" phase, is the interactive stage in which the player may move units; conduct {{Link|2|diplomacy}}; and reconfigure any ongoing actions. Depending on the player's {{Link|2|game settings}}, the turn can end automatically once all active units have received orders, or wait for manual confirmation (the {{key|Enter}} key).
Certain game behaviour occurs in regular four-turn intervals, known as "[Oedo%20year](Oedo year)s", including {{Link|2|barbarian}} uprisings and resolution of {{Link|2|anarchy}}. [Glossary%20of%20Civilization%20terms%23Meta](Meta play) typically involves synchronizing {{Link|2|government}} research and revolutions to Oedo years.
Order of action.
Civilizations act in a fixed order, based on their color:
Calendar.
Note that when {{Link|2|New game|starting a game}} with a custom map, total turns are calculated from the last dimensions submitted to "Start a New Game" or "Customize World", not the size of the map itself. To ensure accurate calculation, the player must first designate a map size through one of these options, then return to the main menu and choose "Start on Premade World".
Spaceship exploit.
A standard game's mandatory retirement year triggers on the "calendar" date, "not" the number of elapsed turns.{{refn|name=cfc-spaceship}} When a {{Link|2|spaceship}} is launched, calendar progression changes to one year per turn, regardless of the stage of the game.{{refn|{{cite web|url=https://apolyton.net/forum/miscellaneous/archives/civ2-strategy-archive/94405-optimal-space-ship-configuration-revisited?p=2670809#post2670809 |title=RE: Optimal space ship configuration revisited |author=Six Thousand Year Old Man |date={{date|21 March 2003}} |website=[Apolyton%20Civilization%20Site](Apolyton Civilization Site) |access-date={{date|31 August 2023}}}} }}{{refn|group=note|This is likely intended to simplify calculating the spaceship's arrival date: the travel time is labelled in years.}} Even if all active spaceships are destroyed, the calendar is not reset.{{refn|group=note|Interestingly, the calendar "does" resume its original scaling if edited via the {{Link|2|Cheat menu|sec=Scenario Parameters|cheat menu}}.{{refn|name=cfc-spaceship}}}} This offers a potential {{Link|2|Bugs|exploit}} whereby a civilization intentionally allows its spaceship to be destroyed: the game will continue to progress at a rate of 1 year per turn, granting bonus turns relative to its launch date.
Modding.
The game calendar can be configured through {{Link|2|Modding|sub=Scenarios|sec=Scenario Parameters|Scenario Parameters}} in the {{Link|2|cheat menu}}. "Turn Year Increment" determines how the calendar scales to turn progression: 0 uses the default dynamic scaling; a positive value adds this number of years per turn; a negative value activates a monthly calendar. "Starting Year" is the exact date of the initial turn. "Maximum Turns" is the total playable turns before the final score is tallied.
Calendar labels are found in the codice_3 section of {{Link|2|Modding|sec=Labels|Labels.txt}}. B.C./A.D. are defined at Lines 2 and 3, respectively; months at Lines 421–432.