# Ubsunur Hollow (Civ6)

Ubsunur Hollow is a four-tile passable {{Link6|Natural Wonder}} in "". Ubsunur Hollow appears as a {{Link6|Marsh}} on {{Link6|Tundra}} tiles. Each Wonder tile provides 2 {{Faith6}}, 1 {{Food6}}, and 1 {{Production6}}. Ubsunur Hollow increases the {{Link6|Appeal}} of adjacent tiles by +2.
Like normal Marsh tiles, Ubsunur Hollow tiles have a {{Movement6}} cost of 2, and reduce the {{Strength6}} Combat Strength of defending units by -2.
Discovering Ubsunur Hollow grants +1 [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score), or +3 Score if the player is the first to do so.
Strategy.
Each Ubsunur Hollow tile has a yield of 2 {{Faith6}}, 1 {{Food6}}, and 1 {{Production6}}. Since {{Faith6}} is often hard to generate early in the game, incorporating the natural wonder tiles can provide a vital head start in founding a [Pantheons%20%28Civ6%29](Pantheon) before any other player. Ubsunur Hollow also helps in making a tundra start less taxing for the [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russians), [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canadians), and anyone else who happens to spawn there. In time and with some planning, it can also make for an easy [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Park) or two.
Unfortunately, as with all natural wonders, the Ubsunur Hollow tiles cannot be developed or improved. Because of this, natural wonders may be more of a hindrance than an asset later in the game - a natural wonder in the heart of a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) can spoil [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonuses) for [Farm%20%28Civ6%29](Farms) and {{District6}}s. In general, passable wonder tiles are significantly better than an unimproved tile of any kind, though they are often less productive than an ordinary tile with a [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) or district.
If you have control of this Natural Wonder, consider pursuing Charles Darwin in order to receive his maximum reward of 2000 {{Science6}}.