# Unciv

Unciv, also written as UnCiv, is a free, open-source 2D recreation of "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" for the Android operating system, but also available for desktop and cross-platform play.
As of December 2023, version 4.9.15 the game is in active development and can be completed; the [Science%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](science victory), [Cultural%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](cultural victory), [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory), [Diplomatic%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](diplomatic victory), and [Victory%20%28Civ5%29%23Time](time victory) are all the current possible methods of [Victory%20%28Civ5%29](victory). It has most of the features present in the ' [Expansion%20pack](expansion), except for [Espionage%20%28Civ5%29](espionage). As a result, the game is still missing some [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations), [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units), and [Building%20%28Civ5%29](buildings) which are unique to the ' expansion. The graphics resemble the strategic view found in "Civilization V", but in a pixel art style; the appearances of the tiles and units can be changed, and players can create or download tileset mods.
Although unfinished, the game enjoys a vast system for mod support, allowing for great flexibility for the coders. "Unciv" mods are easy to make and simple for players to use.
"Unciv" also has a [Multiplayer%20%28Civ5%29](multiplayer) function, which is somewhat robust, where the players have to connect to a server and wait for each other to finish their [turn](turn). As of June 2023, multiplayer doesn't have a turn timer, but the community has made a Discord bot to notify each player of their turn instantly.
"Unciv" is in constant development using the Kotlin language and usually receives 1-2 updates per week; most are [Bugs%20%28Civ5%29](bug) fixes, but new features are also added bit by bit. Yairm210, the creator of the game, has done most of the development, with major contributions by SomeTroglodyte, Itnasi, Reversi, xlenstra, Simon Ceder, Azzurite, Generald Wadalling, letstalkaboutdune, PLynx01, SeventhM, tuvus, and many others.