# Unique unit (Civ5)

In "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" and its expansions, a unique unit (UU) is a special [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](unit) that can be built by only one of the [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations) in the game. A unique unit always replaces a standard unit.
As with previous "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games, all civilizations have at least one unique unit. However, there are also some civilizations that have a second unique unit instead of a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](unique building) or a [Unique%20improvement%20%28Civ5%29](unique improvement). [Roman%20%28Civ5%29](Rome), for example, has two unique units (the [Legion%20%28Civ5%29](Legion) and the [Ballista%20%28Civ5%29](Ballista)), whereas [Russian%20%28Civ5%29](Russia) has only one (the [Cossack%20%28Civ5%29](Cossack)).
Unique units usually have bonuses related to [Terrain%20%28Civ5%29](terrain) or combat strength that set them apart from the units they replace. Most unique units' bonuses, however, are not too significant - none of them are indestructible juggernauts, but they'll tip the odds in their owner's favor while they're available. The [Conquistador%20%28Civ5%29](Conquistador), for example, is not much more powerful than the [Knight%20%28Civ5%29](Knight) it replaces (provided that the two have the same [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotions), are on the same terrain, etc.), so [Spanish%20%28Civ5%29](Spain) is not advised to build Conquistadors en masse and go to war with all its neighbors after unlocking them.
With the "" expansion, allied Militaristic [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](City-States) will occasionally gift you some unique units along with standard ones. This makes it easier to gain control of other civilizations' unique units and can help you or just annoy and hinder you, depending on what they give. The [Mohawk%20Warrior%20%28Civ5%29](Mohawk Warrior), for example, has bonuses in [Forest%20%28Civ5%29](forest) and [Jungle%20%28Civ5%29](jungle) that benefit the [Aztec%20%28Civ5%29](Aztecs) but are practically useless to [Arabian%20%28Civ5%29](Arabia).