# Unique unit (Civ6)

In "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", a unique unit is a special [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit) that is only available to a specific [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) (once they discover the appropriate [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) or [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic), of course). Some [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) also have [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](abilities) that give them access to a unique unit, in which case the player can have "two" unique units (e.g., when playing as [Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29](Teddy Roosevelt) in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI", or as [Teddy%20Roosevelt%20%28Civ6%29/Rough%20Rider](Rough Rider Teddy) with the [Persona%20Packs%20%28Civ6%29](Persona Packs) enabled). All unique units have historical connections to their civilization and/or leader - their names and models, and in some instances their special abilities, are based on these connections.
Unique units have special advantages that make them superior to standard units. These can comprise higher base stats (higher {{Strength6}} Combat Strength or {{RangedStrength6}} Ranged Strength, more {{Moves6}}, etc.), and/or special abilities that are truly unique (such as the [Canadian%20%28Civ6%29](Canadian) [Mountie%20%28Civ6%29](Mountie's) ability to establish [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Parks)). Prior to "" they also don't require [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resources) to train. In "Gathering Storm" all unique units require resources to train and maintain (unless they replace a standard unit that doesn't require strategic resources itself), but they always require smaller amounts of resources than their common counterparts.
Unlike in previous "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games, unique units do not always replace standard units. When they don't, they often fill a niche for each player that no other civilization/leader can fill at the time, giving that player a distinct advantage over his or her rivals. However, these standalone unique units cannot be pre-built and upgraded into, so they require more {{Production6}} investment. Note that unique units may belong to different [Era%20%28Civ6%29](eras) than those they replace, which is important when considering era-specific [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) or the effects of {{General6}}s and {{Admiral6}}s.
There are rare instances in which a unique unit of one civilization can be controlled by another one:
Despite all of these instances, there is currently no special ability or method that can be employed for a civilization to build another civilization's unique unit from scratch.