# Unit

A unit is something that can be built in one of your [City](cities) and can move over [tile](tile)s. Most are [Military%20unit](military), but the term includes peaceful people and equipment such as [Explorer](Explorer)s and [Caravan](Caravan)s. In general there are [Land%20unit](land), [Air%20unit](air), and [naval%20unit](naval unit)s. The basic mechanics have been the same for all the games up until "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)".
In "Civilization V", only one [Military%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](military unit) is normally allowed to occupy a tile at a time. (There are two exceptions to this rule: both a military land unit and a [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](naval unit) can occupy a [Coastal%20%28Civ5%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ5%29](city), and multiple [Air%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](air units) can be based in the same [Carrier%20%28Civ5%29](Carrier) or city even if other military units occupy it.) The limit applies to non-military units as well, but a military unit and a civilian unit "may" both occupy the same tile at the same time.
The [Call%20to%20Power%20games]("Call to Power" games) have a limit of 9 units per tile (including cities).
Movement.
Generally each unit can move and/or attack on each [turn](turn). Each type of unit has a basic number of [movement](movement) points per turn, which may be used up in the first step or attack. [Terrain](Terrain) and the presence of [river](river)s, [road](road)s, or [railroad](railroad)s may affect the number of movement points used. In [Sid%20Meier%27s%20Civilization](the original "Civilization"), there is some randomness in the ability of a [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ1](unit) to move if it has only a fraction (e.g., two-thirds) of a movement point left, and sometimes a unit will be unable to enter a [Mountain%20%28Civ1%29](mountain) square on a given turn even if it has not moved in that turn.
Land units can move only onto land tiles (or onto ships prior to "Civilization V") and naval units only onto [water](water) tiles, but where a block of four tiles has two of each arranged alternately (i.e., opposite) any unit may cross the common corner even if it shows as an isthmus. Air units may use any tiles, and if allowed to pause at the end of one turn outside a city or [Carrier](Carrier) or airbase they may be over water.
Bombardment.
"[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)" introduced the concept of [bombard](bombard)ment (i.e., ranged attack, attack from a distance). In the original "Civilization" and "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)" no such concept existed, but it appeared in "" and "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Alpha%20Centauri](Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)".
"[C-evo](C-evo)" uses the term differently: air and naval units are not allowed to enter an unguarded [City%20%28C-evo%29](city) but may attack it and reduce its [Population%20%28C-evo%29](population) one point per hit unless it has [City%20Walls%20%28C-evo%29](City Walls).
Strengths.
In most games, units have defined [Defense](defensive strength) and defined [Strength](attack strength). In the original "Civilization", for example, several units have a defensive strength of 1, with the [Phalanx%20%28Civ1%29](Phalanx) 2 and the [Musketeers%20%28Civ1%29](Musketeers) 3, and [Mech.%20Inf.%20%28Civ1%29](Mechanized Infantry) the strongest at 6, while attack strengths start at 1 and go up to 10 for land units, 12 for [Bomber%20%28Civ1%29](Bombers), and 18 for [Battleship%20%28Civ1%29](Battleships).
Various factors such as [veteran](veteran) status, [City%20Walls](City Walls), and terrain can increase the effective strengths for a particular engagement, while from "Civilization II" onwards a unit's amount of damage may reduce its strength.
"[Civilization%20IV](Civilization IV)" consolidated units' attack and defense values into just one strength value, and "Civilization V" and "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" have carried on this tradition.
Maximum number.
In the original "Civilization" no [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20Civ1](civilization) may build more than about 125 units. The precise number may depend on the program's accuracy in counting units, where the [F2](F2) function often shows a different number from what the player can find on the [Map%20%28Civ1%29](map).