# University of Sankore (Civ6)

+1 {{Faith6}} 
+2 {{Scientist6}} points per turn 
Other civilizations' {{TradeRoute6}}s to this city provide +1 {{Science6}} and +1 {{Gold6}} for them. 
+2 {{Science6}} for every {{TradeRoute6}} to this city. 
Domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s give an additional +1 {{Faith6}} to this city.
The University of Sankore is a [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder) in "". It must be built on [Desert%20%28Civ6%29](Desert) or [Desert%20%28Hills%29%20%28Civ6%29](Desert Hills) next to a [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) with a [University%20%28Civ6%29](University).
Strategy.
The main benefit of building the University of Sankore is +2 {{Science6}} for every {{TradeRoute6}} sent to the [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) with this wonder. Although players may be worried that other [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations) receive extra {{Gold6}} and {{Science6}} when doing so, that bonus provides crucial incentives for other players to send {{TradeRoute6}}s to this city; otherwise opponents, especially human opponents, will just ignore it considering they know how much it benefits you in the long run. Furthermore, despite granting bonuses for both ends of the {{TradeRoute6}}, the bonus benefits the receiver more, so don't mistakenly believe this wonder helps your enemies and hesitate to build it when you can.
Of course, the most reliable way to fully exploit this bonus is to send domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s, which are further enhanced by the {{Faith6}} bonus. Since the weakness of domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s is that they don't grant much {{Gold6}}, sending too many domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s can limit your economic growth. Therefore, this wonder most benefits civilizations and [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) that can either reliably generate {{Gold6}} independent from {{TradeRoute6}}s or have bonuses to domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s significant enough to justify lower {{Gold6}} income, including [Persian%20%28Civ6%29](Persia), [Spanish%20%28Civ6%29](Spain), [Polish%20%28Civ6%29](Poland), [Poundmaker%20%28Civ6%29](Poundmaker), [Malian%20%28Civ6%29](Mali) and [Mansa%20Musa%20%28Civ6%29](Mansa Musa), and [Pachacuti%20%28Civ6%29](Pachacuti). [Arabian%20%28Civ6%29](Arabia) under [Saladin%20%28Civ6%29](Saladin) can also benefit from this wonder, as it plays to both of Arabia's main skews. However, you should probably consider combining this wonder with [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy cards) that grant {{Gold6}}, like [Caravansaries%20%28Civ6%29](Caravansaries) or [Triangular%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Triangular Trade), to offset this weakness of running too many domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s. Seeking the [Great%20Merchant%20%28Civ6%29](Great Merchant) [Raja%20Todar%20Mal%20%28Civ6%29](Raja Todar Mal) will also enhance domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s, especially if the city with the University of Sankore has multiple {{District6}}s.
This wonder has the strongest synergy with the king of domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s himself, [Tokugawa%20%28Civ6%29](Tokugawa). For Japan under Tokugawa, there is no question between international {{TradeRoute6}}s versus domestic, and this wonder adds even more {{Science6}} and a bit of {{Faith6}} on top of something they would want to do anyway, so this wonder is almost a must every game. To a lesser extent, [Nader%20Shah%20%28Civ6%29](Nader Shah) can also take advantage of this. Also Persia is already mentioned above, Nader Shah adds even more bonuses to domestic {{TradeRoute6}}s. However, Nader Shah and Persia receive no penalty when sending international {{TradeRoute6}}s like Tokugawa, and sometimes they still want to perform such actions if they want to win a cultural victory. In that case, University of Sankore is not a priority.