# Vampire Castle (Civ6)

The Vampire Castle is a special [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvement) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is built by the [Vampire%20%28Civ6%29](Vampire) [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit) and is exclusive to the [Sanguine%20Pact%20%28Civ6%29](Sanguine Pact) secret society in the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Ethiopia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia Pack). It can be built on any featureless land [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) in your own or neutral [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory).
In the [Zombie%20Defense%20%28Civ6%29](Zombie Defense) game mode, the Vampire Castle deals minor (10 [HP](HP)) damage to hostile units passing through it.
Strategy.
Besides functioning like all other [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Fort)-type improvements, a Vampire Castle also serves two additional purposes: an economic purpose for the and a safe haven to which your Vampires can retreat without having to go all the way back to the .
Note that the Vampire Castle's tile itself is not workable. Any cities within a 3-tile range of the castle will not be able to work the tile, as it belongs to the .
The number of Vampire Castles you can build is always equal to the number of build charges each and every Vampire of yours has. If one Vampire builds a Vampire Castle, every Vampire will lose one build charge; if a Vampire Castle gets removed, all Vampires will regain a build charge. If a Vampire Castle is pillaged but not removed, every Vampire will regain a build charge that they can use to place a Vampire Castle anywhere else. However, if they choose to do so, the pillaged castle cannot be repaired anymore.
With her [Move%20Capital%20%28Civ6%29](Move Capital) [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project), [Dido%20%28Civ6%29](Dido) can choose which city will receive her Vampire Castles' yields and quickly grow a newly-settled city without the use of domestic s.
When combined with the [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29](Monopolies and Corporations) game mode, you can use a Vampire Castle to get an easy +4 , +10 , and +3 , or even more if you plan your [Industry%20%28Civ6%29](Industries) well.
Also, in the [Apocalypse%20%28Civ6%29](Apocalypse) game mode, this tile improvement goes exceptionally well with the [Great%20Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Great Bath) + [Soothsayer%20%28Civ6%29](Soothsayer) strategy. Settle quickly and immediately try to research [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery) to unlock the Great Bath. With a little bit of luck with your spawn location, you may finish the Great Bath in time even on a high [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty level). After that, focus on cranking out Soothsayers and participating in the [Appease%20the%20Gods%20%28Civ6%29](Appease the Gods) [Competition%20%28Civ6%29](competition). For every Soothsayer charge, the Floodplains tiles in your city will gain 1 each, and this can be done infinitely. This amount of can be further amplified by building Vampire Castles near those Floodplains tiles. This strategy/exploit works with any [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization), but it can be used best by [Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin Shi Huang) (since he can reliably construct the Great Bath on even the highest difficulty levels) and [Ethiopian%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia) (since they benefit the most from high ). It technically can work well with [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egypt) since they also have an easier time building the Great Bath, but since Egyptian infrastructure is already immune to [Flood%20%28Civ6%29](Flood) damage, this is kind of redundant.