# Vatican City (Civ6)

Vatican City is a religious [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)." It was added in the [Maya%20%26amp%3B%20Gran%20Colombia%20Pack](Maya &amp; Gran Colombia Pack).
Strategy.
Vatican City is a largely worthless city-state. Its [Suzerain%20%28Civ6%29](Suzerainty) adds a burst of 400 religious pressure to every [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) within 10 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) (though it is currently bugged and affects only cities within 6 tiles) whenever you activate a . There are two major problems with this ability. First, you need to have a founded [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion), or at least have a majority religion in your empire; otherwise, this city-state will do nothing. Second, and more importantly, the vast majority of in the game can only be activated inside your own territory, so unless you focus on leveraging this ability by only activating them in peripheral cities of your empire, the only cities that will be affected by the burst of religious pressure are your own. If you're lucky enough to have a neighbor whose borders adjoin yours, you might be able to convert a few of their cities, but that's about it. Probably the best [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) to make use of this bonus is [Russian%20%28Civ6%29](Russia), since they have a religious skew and can earn a lot of s, s, and s that have multiple charges. Even when playing as Russia, however, there will usually be far better places to invest your s than Vatican City.
Bugs.
The religious pressure from activating a extends only to cities within 6 [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles), not 10.