# Victory (Civ5)

"[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)" has five different paths to victory.
Domination.
In vanilla and ', you achieve a domination victory if you are the last player in possession of your original capital"'. You do "not" have to wipe out all other players entirely! It doesn't matter who controls the other s: you can, for example, let another player take all the other s but yours and then take their , at which point you win immediately. Also, if two other players capture each other's original capitals, you will win the game even if you weren't at war with either of them.
Note that the original capital of a civilization can never be completely destroyed; it can only be [Conquered%20cities%20%28Civ5%29](captured) (unless you play the "One City Challenge"). If your is captured, another one of your [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) will be assigned as the current capital. The current capital "can", however, be destroyed and does not count towards the domination victory.
In "", you must control all opposing players' original capitals and be in possession of your own original capital to achieve a domination victory.
Science.
To achieve a science victory, you must build and launch a [Spaceship%20%28Civ5%29](spaceship). In order to do this, you need first to complete the [Apollo%20Program%20%28Civ5%29](Apollo Program) [Project%20%28Civ5%29](project), and then you must reach far enough in the [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ5](technology tree) to be able to build the components of the spaceship. All of the necessary technologies for this are in the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Information Era) ([Modern%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Modern) and [Future%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Future Eras) in vanilla), and require developing practically the entire tech tree.
Once you have all the required components of the spaceship (or as they become available), you can assemble them at your . The spaceship will be automatically launched to [Alpha%20Centauri%20%28star%20system%29](Alpha Centauri) once assembled.
In "", it appears that the tech development in the later [Era%20%28Civ5%29](eras) has been considerably slowed (more required for each tech), probably to allow for a longer time to play with all new late-game features introduced in the expansion.
Cultural.
Cultural victory is achieved by filling out five trees of [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies) and completing the [Utopia%20Project%20%28Civ5%29](Utopia Project). Each tree has 5 policies, so in order to win you must have acquired 25 social policies in 5 different policy trees.
Social policies are acquired with , with the cost increasing for each new one. Also, founded and annexed cities increase the amount of needed depending on [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) size, which makes this path very hard for large empires. To work around this issue, you can limit the foundation of new cities and, when capturing other players' cities, you can make them [Conquered%20cities%20%28Civ5%29%23Puppet%20Cities](puppets) instead of [Conquered%20cities%20%28Civ5%29%23Annexed%20Cities](annexing) them.
In the ' expansion pack, cultural victory conditions change dramatically, and have been replaced with what is best described as a "Cultural Domination" victory. The task is to use the new game mechanics to influence all other civilizations still in game and achieve at least the Influential level of cultural influence with each one.
Based upon the difference between a civ's  and others' , there are six possible stances: Unknown, Exotic, Familiar, Popular, Influential, and Dominant. The difficulty is increasing your cultural influence from with other civilizations while simultaneously protecting your own civilization from their influence using .
Diplomatic.
Diplomatic victory is achieved by winning a vote in the [United%20Nations%20%28Civ5%29](United Nations). To win the vote, you must have the majority vote, and in order to gather more votes, players can become allies with [City-state%20%28Civ5%29](city-states), or return captured cities to defeated [AI](AI) players.
The player who built the United Nations first has two votes instead of the usual one, giving them an extra edge when voting. Every civilization leader will vote for another civilization that liberated his capital (in which case this leader will get the vote). City-states will vote only if they are allied with a civilization or a civilization [Conquered%20cities%20%28Civ5%29%23Liberating](liberated) them in the past, so a common way of winning would be allying with the required number of city-states on the [turn](turn) just before the UN vote occurs.
The ' expansion makes changes to the [Diplomacy%20%28Civ5%29](diplomacy) feature. The United Nations is not a buildable wonder anymore - instead it develops automatically from the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress) when a civilization reaches the Information Era or at least half of the world's civilizations reach the Atomic Era. At that point, a new automatic vote starts every 20 turns: the vote for the World Leader. The conditions for winning this vote are pretty much the same as for winning the vote for any other resolution, except for a minimum number of votes required is based on number of civilizations and city-states.
Time.
Time victory is achieved by the player with the highest score by the end of the time period, assuming no one has achieved any of the above victory conditions. The deadline for a time victory is usually the year [2050%20AD](2050 AD), but it is possible to change it to an earlier year or a predetermined number of years. Note that, on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ5%29](speed), 2050 AD occurs at Turn 500, making Turn 499 the last turn you can play before the game is over and the winner is determined by score. If you don't have a score lead, it can be very easy to lose a game if you mistime, say, your final spaceship part.
This form of victory is a kind of stalemate. Remember that you can always disable this victory type before starting the game.
Score.
Your score is also used to determine your Ranking, which compares you to one of the following historical figures at the end of the game:
Defeat.
A defeat occurs either when you have no cities and no [Settler%20%28Civ5%29](Settlers), when a player who is not on your team achieves one of the victory conditions, or when the turn counter runs out in a game with the time victory deactivated (in which case the game ends in defeat for all players). Retiring from any game also counts as a defeat.
Recommended civilizations for each victory.
This section is intended for new players who look to improve their experience with all victory conditions. All civilizations recommended here all have significant bonuses towards their preferred victory paths, and these bonuses are focused, synergized, and can be easily leveraged by new players.