# Victory (CivBE)

&lt;br&gt;
' has five unique victory"' types. Unlike in previous "[Civilization%20%28series%29](Civilization)" games, the paths to victory are part narrative. Because "Civilization: Beyond Earth" takes place in the future, the developers made each victory path come with various to help tell the narrative. These are mini goals towards winning the game, and help the player learn play styles, or offer choices towards .
When setting up a new game, you can select [Starting%20a%20new%20game%20%28CivBE%29%23Advanced%20Setup%20options](Advanced Setup) and decide which type of victories to allow or disable.
Domination.
The classic "Civilization" victory. To win a Domination victory, a player must control all of the original capital cities. This is changed from the initial release of the game where a player had to be the last player with its original capital.
When setting up a new game, the Advanced Settings menu allows you to decide if domination victory includes just capturing the s, or if you have to eliminate all cities and enemy units in the game.
Contact.
The goal of this victory is to establish contact with a superior alien race. Throughout a play session, the player will find clues to sentient alien life. By completing quests, or developing certain technologies, the player will unlock the means of decoding an alien Signal, and then use it to contact its authors. This victory type is a homage to a Carl Sagan book of the same name.
Step 1Find the Progenitor Signal. To get this you must achieve two of the following:
Step 2
Step 3
The Contact victory is potentially the fastest victory possible. In theory, you may be able to find one of the two pieces of The Signal within the first 100 turns if you stumble on one piece in a Progenitor ruin soon after you start.
Transcendence.
This victory is achieved with the affinity, and consists of linking all the minds of the planet into a single consciousness, allowing humanity to transcend into an existence beyond the individual. The player must build the and protect it until victory is met. By building the Mind Flower, humans begin to connect with and awaken the consciousness of the planet.
Here's a full video on this victory:
Among the Affinity Victories, Transcendence is perhaps the easiest one. It requires a larger tech research spectrum, though, so you'll need an efficient research, if you are to both develop the Harmony Affinity and research the necessary high-end techs. Unlike the other two types of Affinity victory, once you establish the Cognitive Link (that is, when you complete Mind Flower), you don't need to do anything - just wait. How fast the link is established depends on the presence of special buildings in your cities - the more of these, the faster the linking process. Again, plan ahead of time. Also, be mindful that during the linking all Alien units turn hostile (dark red)!
Promised Land.
This victory is achieved with the affinity, and consists of organizing a colonization wave of Earthling survivors. The player must launch a Lasercom Satellite to establish contact, and build an (wonder) back to Earth. The next goal is to summon and settle 20 colonists on the new planet. The player will need to protect them from other factions, as well as find space for them to settle. This, in part, is where the challenge lies because the s arrive late game, when free land is most scarce. This perspective involves the Purists' idea of creating a new Earth, where old Earthlings can migrate and use as their new home or 'Promised Land'.
Here's a full video on this victory:
Like the other Affinity Victories, Promised Land victory depends on a strategical tech development which boosts your Affinity, while at the same time allowing you to research the necessary tech for building the Exodus Gate. Its differential is that you will then have to settle the incoming Earthlings. To do this efficiently, you need to plan ahead of time and leave suitable space inside your territory, well-served by your transport network. You need to establish at least four Earthling settlements, and distribute the 20 Colonists among them.
Emancipation.
This victory is achieved with the affinity, and consists of returning to Old Earth and emancipating the humans who remain there; this means that in much the same way as the Supremacy player's culture came to view their organic bodies and brains as limitations and impairments to be augmented and replaced with more generalized cybernetic equivalents, so the people of Old Earth, lacking the resources and suffering the ongoing consequences of the Great Mistake, would be given the chance to similarly shed their biology. The player must build a back to Earth and send through 1,000 Strength worth of units to establish 'order', as the victory text suggests that many of Old Earth's peoples misunderstood the basically benign Emancipation as an attack or extermination effort, leading to some level of violent resistance.
Here's a full video on this victory:
This type of Affinity Victory is a mixture of good tech planning (to research the necessary techs and develop Supremacy Affinity) and army building. Unlike Domination victory, however, your goal is not to conquer enemy cities - it is to build as strong an army as possible, so that you can not only send enough units through the Gate, but also ensure its defense. Again, the more powerful the individual units sent, the shorter time it will take to achieve the victory once the Emancipation Gate is completed. As with the other two Affinity Victories, placement of the Gate is very important.
End of Time.
If no one has achieved victory by Turn 500, the game ends automatically. The scores of all surviving colonies will be tallied and a victor announced. You may continue playing the game after this point, but victory will no longer be a factor.