# Victory (Civ3)

There are six ways to achieve victory in "[Civilization%20III](Civilization III)".
Space Race.
One of the peaceful methods of victory in "Civilization III" is to be the first to colonize [Alpha%20Centauri%20%28star%20system%29](Alpha Centauri), the nearest star system. In order to achieve this victory, the player must be the first to launch a completed [Spaceship%20%28Civ3%29](Spaceship) to Alpha Centauri.
Building the Ship.
Each [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20Civ3](civilization) can build an "Alpha Centauri-worthy" spacecraft, and construction can begin when the civilization completes the [Apollo%20Program%20%28Civ3%29](Apollo Program) ([Small%20Wonder%20%28Civ3%29](Small Wonder)). The ship is comprised of ten components, which must be built prior to launch.
Domination.
Have 66% of the world's land surface within your territory as well as 66% of the world's population within your [City%20%28Civ3%29](cities). This can be accomplished either by military measures or by [Culture%20%28Civ3%29](Culture) development (or, more likely, a combination of the two).
Conquest.
A purely military solution: conquer the world, civilization by civilization. If you eliminate all civilizations from the game, you win.
Cultural.
Make one of your cities or your whole civilization the envy of the world. A city with a Cultural value of 20,000 or if your civilization is worth 100,000 and at least twice as much as any rival, you win.
Diplomacy.
Getting yourself elected to the head of the United Nations requires excellent diplomatic skills. After is built, there are periodic votes by the council to elect a Leader. To be elected, a candidate must win a majority of all votes. If you are elected, you win the game.
There are always two, and sometimes three, candidates. To be a candidate in an election, a civilization must either:
If only one civilization is eligible, then the second candidate is the civilization with the largest population.
Histograph.
"Civilization III" runs until the year [2050%20AD](2050). If the game ends and no one has won the space race, conquered or dominated the world, wowed the world with cultural achievements or diplomatic aplomb, then the winner is determined by constructing a histograph.
A histograph looks at the total "Score" generated by all civilizations turn by turn over the course of the game. The civilization that generated the highest score—on average—wins. Being powerful in [Ancient%20Times%20%28Civ3%29](Ancient Times) is just as valuable as being powerful in the [Modern%20Times%20%28Civ3%29](Modern Era).