# Victor (Castellan) (Civ6)

Victor, otherwise known as The Castellan, is one of the s introduced in "". He is the military governor who excels at defending [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) from attacks.
Strategy.
Military focused, once established in a city, Victor is instrumental in strengthening, preserving, and defending it from foreign threats.
Because Victor has little offensive ability, he is often seen as one of the less useful Governors. Nevertheless, he can be a great pickup for the cities you have closest to an aggressive neighbor. Although Victor doesn't allow his city to produce units quicker, he can often slow down an advance enough so that all of your cities can produce units to bring to the front before his city falls. His other advantage is that he can be established in a city quicker than all other Governors: he is established in a city in 3 turns, while most Governors take 5. If you are looking to play more aggressively, Victor's quick establishment time can be the difference between keeping or losing a city during wartime. Also, Victor is best used as a Loyalty stick in captured cities to prevent them from flipping.
In "", Victor receives multiple changes, being buffed overall. First, his Garrison Commander title now also applies +4 [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) per turn to cities within 9 tiles (as well as the city to which he's assigned, contrary to its description), which is useful for warmongers who are trying to keep distant conquests in their empire. His Defense Logistics title is also buffed, now adding +1 per turn to every accumulating [List%20of%20resources%20in%20Civ6%23Strategic](Strategic resource) in the city, allowing for maintenance and production of more resource-consuming units. Finally, his Level 2 title Security Expert is renamed and given to [Amani%20%28Diplomat%29%20%28Civ6%29](Amani, the Diplomat), and is replaced with a Level 3 title Arms Race Proponent, taken from [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala, the Educator). This gives a substantial boost to nuclear armament [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects) in the city, augmenting the creation of the ultimate weapons of the world: [Nuclear%20weapons%20%28Civ6%29](nukes).
Notably, the extra ranged strike from Embrasure applies to every in Victor's city that has a ranged attack: [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers), [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments), and [Oppidum%20%28Civ6%29](Oppida).
Even though Air Defense Initiative specifically says anti-air support units, any unit with anti-air strength benefits from the title's bonus.