# Victory (Civ6)

There are five different victory conditions in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)": Science, Culture, Domination, Religion, and Score (with a sixth, Diplomacy, added in ""). In order to win, you must reach one of these victory conditions (apart from Score Victory) before any other player.
Each player's ranking towards the different victory conditions can be tracked using the "World Rankings" panel on the top right. Unlike "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", the game will not produce a notification of when other players have achieved major milestones towards a certain victory condition.
Science.
To achieve a Science Victory, you must accomplish these major milestones, depending on the ruleset with which you're playing:
All of the associated [Project%20%28Civ6%29](projects) are accessed through the [Spaceport%20%28Civ6%29](Spaceport) [District%20%28Civ6%29](district). [Launch%20Earth%20Satellite%20%28Civ6%29](Launch Earth Satellite) must be completed before work on [Launch%20Moon%20Landing%20%28Civ6%29](Launch Moon Landing) can begin, and Launch Moon Landing must be completed before [Launch%20Mars%20Habitation%20%28Civ6%29](Launch Mars Habitation)/[Launch%20Mars%20Hydroponics%20%28Civ6%29](Hydroponics)/[Launch%20Mars%20Reactor%20%28Civ6%29](Reactor) (collectively known as the Mars modules) can begin. These last three projects, however, may be completed in any order. Once you have produced all three Mars modules, you win the game.
In "Gathering Storm", the conditions for winning a Science Victory change. The first two steps (completing Launch Earth Satellite and Launch Moon Landing) are the same, but the Mars modules are consolidated into a single project and followed by two new steps: launching an expedition to an exoplanet and reaching the exoplanet. Completing [Exoplanet%20Expedition%20%28Civ6%29](Exoplanet Expedition) automatically initiates the fifth and final step as the spacecraft takes flight and begins its journey to the exoplanet. Its destination is 50 Light-Years away on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed), and it travels at a base speed of 1 Light-Year per turn, though it can be expedited by completing the [Lagrange%20Laser%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Lagrange Laser Station) and [Terrestrial%20Laser%20Station%20%28Civ6%29](Terrestrial Laser Station) projects. Each of these projects becomes available after researching [Offworld%20Mission%20%28Civ6%29](Offworld Mission), can be undertaken in multiple [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities), and increases the spacecraft's speed by 1 Light-Year per turn when completed.
Much like in [vanilla](vanilla) "Civilization VI" and "", each of the required projects must be undertaken in a city with a Spaceport. Once the spacecraft reaches its destination, the player wins the game.
While it obviously requires a lot of to obtain the necessary tech, the amount of required for the Science Victory projects can be massive, so it's advisable to have two or three cities with Spaceports and high potential. Furthermore, it is a very good idea to have [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](Spies) protecting your Spaceports, and perhaps your [Industrial%20Zone%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Zones), from sabotage.
Useful bonuses to look out for when accomplishing this goal:
Culture.
To achieve a Cultural Victory, you must attract visiting tourists by generating high amounts of and . Victory is achieved when the combined total of visiting tourists in your civilization is greater than any other single civ's domestic tourists.
Your domestic tourists represent the tourists from your civilization that are currently happily vacationing within your borders, and function as your "defense" against Cultural Victories, raising the total number of visiting tourists other civilizations have to attract from you to become culturally dominant over you. They're calculated as the total amount of you've generated over the entire game (including "bonus" generated by cultural inspirations) divided by 100.
Your visiting tourists represent the number of citizens you've attracted from other civilizations, and function as your "offense" in Cultural Victories; when the combined total of your visiting tourists from all civilizations is higher than an opponent's domestic tourists, you become "culturally dominant" over them, and you win when you're culturally dominant over all opponents. The visiting tourists from each opponent are calculated as the total amount of you've sent to them over the entire game, divided by (150 * number of civs) in vanilla or (200 * number of civs) in the expansions. For example, in an 8-civ game with the vanilla ruleset, you earn 1 foreign tourist from a civ for each 1200 you send to them. This means that winning a Cultural Victory becomes easier when there are fewer civilizations in the game.
Note that domestic and visiting tourists are thus calculated completely separately; there's not a shared "pool" of tourists split between them, and despite the game text's misleading wording, you don't actually "take" visiting tourists from another civilization's domestic tourist count.
Notable ways to increase :
There are also ways to increase your output towards specific civilizations, such as having s with them or sharing the same government type.
Note that if you save the game on the turn just before winning a Cultural Victory, the victory won't trigger and you'll have to load a prior save.
In "Gathering Storm", cultural dominance also provides various benefits to the dominant civilization:
Domination.
To achieve a Domination Victory, you must conquer the original of every other civilization, whether or not they are still in play. A strong military is obviously highly recommended, as are the necessary technologies to have up-to-date [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units).
It is advisable to use the appropriate [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29](Casus Belli) to avoid the worst [Warmongering%20%28Civ6%29](warmongering) penalties (or in ""). Additionally, conquering the last city of any civilization will result in a very large warmongering penalty, practically ensuring that every other civilization will hate you for the rest of the game.
Since waging war also carries a cumulative penalty to , it is useful to build [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes), gain access to more [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Luxury](Luxury Resources) or simply take a break in the fighting every now and then; otherwise your cities will sooner or later revolt and start mass-producing [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](barbarians).
There is a sixth, related form of victory, identified simply as "Victory." This occurs when all other players have been defeated. This is usually only the case when a game is started without the Domination Victory condition and the player defeats all other players. In this case, the Domination Victory is shown.
Religion.
To achieve a Religious Victory, your [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](Religion) must become the predominant Religion in every civilization in the game. A Religion is considered predominant in a civilization if it is followed by more than 50% of the cities in that civilization.
There are three ways to convert a city to your religion:
In order to kill a religious unit in regular combat, you need to be at war with the enemy civilization and move any military unit into the same tile as the religious unit, then use the Condemn Heretic action. Much like plundering a , this kills the religious unit and inflicts no damage on the military unit. For this reason, it is important to escort your religious units whenever you are at war with a nearby civilization.
Barbarians can also kill religious units, but unlike enemy civilizations they never intentionally target those units. They will only kill them if they happen to move into the same tile for other reasons. In fact, most of the time it is perfectly safe to walk past a barbarian outpost with a religious unit, without being bothered.
After being converted, other civilizations may undertake [Casus%20Belli%20%28Civ6%29%23Holy%20War](Holy Wars) against you, particularly if they no longer have a single city predominant with their own religion.
There is an alternate way to convert a civilization, if everything else fails: conquer and raze their heathen cities to the ground. Since you need at least half of any civilization's cities converted to your religion, by definition if you remove one of their non-converted cities, the converted cities now account for more of their total number of cities.
It is also possible to lose converted civilizations in the same way. If, for example, another civilization has only a single city (converted) and founds another (which by default is not religious), you no longer have the majority (&gt; 50%) of their cities converted. Still, a minority of your religion will stay, making it easy to "reconvert" cities. You can avoid being quickly reconverted and losing your religion by using an Apostle's "Launch Inquisition" ability as early as possible, which will allow you to purchase [Inquisitor%20%28Civ6%29](Inquisitors).
Other important tips for a Religious Victory:
Diplomacy.
Exclusive to the "Gathering Storm" expansion, Diplomatic Victory is achieved by reaching a certain threshold of Diplomatic Victory points (20 on Standard speed). There are multiple ways to gain and lose Diplomatic Victory points:
The first player to earn the requisite number of Diplomatic Victory points becomes the World Leader and wins the game. In team games, the entire team wins if one member becomes World Leader, so wise teams will pool their votes for one member and try to help them win every World Leader election.
The Diplomatic Victory movie is the only one that is not narrated by [Sean%20Bean](Sean Bean) - it is narrated by [Natasha%20Loring](Natasha Loring) instead.
On occasion, a bug will prevent a Diplomatic Victory from triggering, which can be resolved by loading an older save.
Score/Time.
A Score Victory occurs when no civilization has achieved any other victory when the turn counter runs out ([2050%20AD](2050 AD) on Standard speed). In this case, the civilization with the highest overall score will win.
In a standard game with the vanilla ruleset, each player's score is calculated as follows:
In a standard game with the "Rise and Fall" or "Gathering Storm" ruleset, each player's score is calculated as follows:
If two or more players have the same score, civics are the highest-priority tiebreaker, followed by cities, districts, Population, , religion, technologies, and wonders.
If this type of victory is not desirable, it may be turned off in the settings under [Starting%20a%20new%20game%20%28Civ6%29%23Advanced%20Setup](Advanced Setup) when starting a game.
Defeat.
A defeat occurs either when you have no [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and no [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers), when a player who is not on your team achieves one of the victory conditions, or when the turn counter runs out in a game with the Score Victory deactivated (in which case the game ends in defeat for all players). Retiring from any game also counts as a defeat.
Ranking.
Scores are also used to determine each player's Ranking, which compares them to one of the following historical figures at the end of the game:
Recommended civilizations for each victory.
This section is intended for new players who look to improve their experience with all victory conditions. All civilizations recommended here all have significant bonuses towards their preferred victory paths, and these bonuses are focused, synergized, and can be easily leveraged by new players.
However, it is also recommended to be aware that the lists below are a few examples, not the whole, because many civilizations have synergies to more than two kinds of victories. Germany, for instance, is listed in Science Victory due to their unique district's boost, but this yield is also crucial when aiming for a Domination Victory. America is mentioned in the Diplomatic Victory below, but thanks to their [Film%20Studio%20%28Civ6%29](unique building), a Cultural Victory can also be easily attained. In conclusion, you can refer to the lists below, but you’re not required to follow them.