# Vilnius (Civ6)

Vilnius is a cultural [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".
Strategy.
Vanilla.
As a rule of thumb, random s and s are not strong. They can be activated on [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) or [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics) which you are one turn away from completing, or ones whose [Boost%20%28Civ6%29](boosts) can be easily triggered by you, or on leaf technologies or civics that you don't need to research to complete the game. The key word here is "random," as bonuses beyond your control are unreliable, and no strategy should be built upon such a foundation. Vilnius grants a random every time you enter a new [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era), which is a pitiful bonus - if you lose Suzerainty of it right before you enter a new era, you miss out on an opportunity to benefit from its bonus. Even if you manage to remain Suzerain of Vilnius throughout the game, it can give you a maximum of 7 s, which isn't that impressive in light of the random factor. Under the [vanilla](vanilla) ruleset, Vilnius should always be at the bottom of your priority list, as you're practically guaranteed to find another, more useful city-state.
"Rise and Fall".
The description of Vilnius' bonus makes it a bit hard to understand what it actually does. Basically, all of your [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) receive a 50% bonus to their base [Adjacency%20bonus%20%28Civ6%29](adjacency bonus) multiplied by the level of your highest active - 50% if it's at Level 1, 100% if it's at Level 2, and 150% if it's at Level 3. It sounds great on paper until you take into account that the Theater Square is the hardest specialty on which to earn a high starting adjacency bonus. Besides the minor bonus from being adjacent to other s, it gains only from being adjacent to [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](wonders). In "", it also gains a bonus from being next to [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complexes) and [Water%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](Water Parks), which hardly anyone builds en masse. Besides, the time it takes to accrue enough points to reach Alliance Level 3 can be excruciatingly long, especially if your Ally is too far away for your s to reach - by that point, you may be generating so much per turn that Vilnius' Suzerain bonus will barely matter anymore.
[Pericles%20%28Civ6%29](Pericles) is one of the few [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) who can take advantage of Vilnius: the [Acropolis%20%28Civ6%29](Acropolis) always has a high starting adjacency bonus, and his playstyle promotes forming s with other players. [Ludwig%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Ludwig II) can make great use of Vilnius' bonus since he turns the adjacency bonuses of Theater Squares into with [Castles%20%28Civ6%29](Castles), ushering him towards an even faster [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory) than normal. [Japanese%20%28Civ6%29](Japan) and [Brazilian%20%28Civ6%29](Brazil) can vie for Vilnius' Suzerainty thanks to their enhanced Theater Squares if they choose to go down a cultural path. Technically, [Australian%20%28Civ6%29](Australia) and the [Dutch%20%28Civ6%29](Netherlands) can as well since they have bonuses towards their Theater Squares, but these two skew more towards a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Science](Scientific Victory) than a Cultural Victory. If you aren't playing as one of these [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilizations), just do yourself a favor and ignore Vilnius, because you'll most likely have a better place to invest your s.