# Virtues (CivBE)

&lt;onlyinclude&gt;Virtues are an orthogonal system to complement and augment your [Tech%20Web%20%28CivBE%29](technology) choices and play style. Whereas a player's technology path may be a series of adaptive choices to the environment and circumstances, Virtues represent the player's long-term choices about style and flavor which are more removed from immediate circumstances.&lt;/onlyinclude&gt;
Acquiring virtues.
Virtues are acquired by accumulating over time, much like [Social%20policies%20%28Civ5%29](social policies) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)". All your [Colony%20%28CivBE%29](colony) is producing from all sources is gathered in a pool, and whenever a certain threshold is reached (based on how many Virtues and [City%20%28CivBE%29](cities) you already have and the [Difficulty%20level%20%28CivBE%29](difficulty level) on which you're playing), you can select and activate one Virtue.
There are four distinct categories of Virtues: Might ([List%20of%20units%20in%20CivBE%23Military](Military)), Prosperity (, , and ), Knowledge ( and ), and Industry ( and ). Each category is aimed at enriching a specific gameplay aspect, as implied by its name. Unlike in "Civilization V", however, you don't need to unlock a certain Virtue category in order to acquire anything in it - all four categories are available right from the start, without any restrictions. Another difference is that each category has three times the number of individual Virtues in it, which are organized into three tiers. Individual Virtues within each category are further organized into a tree, so you need to adopt the lower-tier ones first and then make your way down the tree to reach the higher-tier Virtues. Although you have the freedom to choose whichever of the four categories you want right from the start, you will have to develop each category methodically in order to reach higher tiers and more powerful Virtues.
Synergy bonuses.
Acquiring a certain number of Virtues from either the same category or the same tier yields an additional synergy bonus. For example, after you get 5 Virtues from the Might category, you get a special bonus; when you get 6 Tier I Virtues you also gain a special bonus. Each category- and tier-related synergy bonus is different. In general, category bonuses are oriented towards the same aspect the category develops (see each category for the specific bonuses), while tier bonuses have a more general benefit (see [%23Tier%20Synergy%20Bonuses](below)).
This system allows great flexibility in developing your Virtues. You could choose to develop a single category consistently and acquire its Tier II and III Virtues and synergy bonuses quickly, or you could choose to develop two categories simultaneously, or even three. Of course, the ever-increasing price of subsequent Virtues imposes a practical limit on how many you can get, so plan ahead and look at strengthening aspects of your colony which are consistent with your overall strategy, or which are otherwise lacking.
Might.
Might deals with all things military, bringing benefits from combat or cheaper/better , or lowering the cost of building and maintaining your combat forces. Those looking to expand through force of arms, whether fighting or other colonies, will likely pursue the Virtues of Might.
Prosperity.
, , and are the focuses of the Virtue of Prosperity. Whatever the medium of exchange and the benefits of hard work, players who seek to have large cities and healthy citizens to fill them should consider the path of Prosperity.
Knowledge.
It has been said that "knowledge is power." This Virtue is devoted to improving research towards new , and should excite those excited about the shape of things to come. The Virtue of Knowledge is not limited to , of course, but encompasses artistic expression as well.
Industry.
Industry is the Virtue for those seeking to increase wealth and productivity. It offers bonuses in and , along with some other benefits to ensure these aren't wasted. It may be that hard work is its own reward, but it is nice to get something out of it.
Original Virtues screen.
The original Virtues screen seen below has been replaced since the release of "Rising Tide" in both the base game and the expansion.