# Voidsingers (Civ6)

The Voidsingers are one of four Secret Societies in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)", exclusive to the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) [Game%20Mode%20%28Civ6%29](game mode), introduced in the [Ethiopia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia Pack). They are a nihilistic cult of dark elder gods. They focus on [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion), Relics, and [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29]((dis)loyalty). 
Introduction.
It started with a dream of the sea. The waves surged towards the shore, but refused to break upon the sand, the water's surface having turned to something more like skin. A vast dark shape moved underneath, its form constantly growing new limbs and resorbing old ones. On the wind, there was a song that whispered to you its name, a set of syllables not designed for human tongues. The next day, in the market, you overhear a young urchin with a hollow stare mutter something in the same language. 
After Joining.
Our world is shallow - theirs is deep. You have opened your mind to the song of the void and accepted its truth. The Old Ones are sleeping, but we can hear their dreams. What seems to be madness is a higher truth. We wait and watch the sea and sing their praises.
## Overview

Similar to the other Secret Societies, Voidsinger membership lasts the entire game. Once joined, players will unlock a new [Governors%20%28Civ6%29](Governor) with four unique titles. This Governor operates on a national scale, thus granting bonuses to the entire empire without being assigned to a [City%20%28Civ6%29](city).
Voidsinger membership unlocks the [Old%20God%20Obelisk%20%28Civ6%29](Old God Obelisk), which replaces the [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument). It has all of the [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument)'s base effects, and provides additional and a [Great%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Great Work) slot. The Voidsingers also have a unique unit, the [Cultist%20%28Civ6%29](Cultist). Purchased with , Cultists can spend a charge to recruit followers in enemy cities, reducing the target city's [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) by calling its citizens to madness. This Loyalty damage can further be improved by a unique [Project%20%28Civ6%29](project) called [Dark%20Summoning%20%28Civ6%29](Dark Summoning), and when Cultists die, they leave behind a Relic of the Void which provides +4 and +12 . Also, Voidsinger members are rewarded with extra , , and based on their generation.
The Voidsingers' base chance of sending an invitation after you discover a [Tribal%20Village%20%28Civ6%29](Tribal Village) is 70%. However, as with other societies, this chance will get slightly smaller with every other civilization that joins this society (meaning "popular" societies will be less likely to send you an invitation).
Strategy.
The Voidsingers are a solid society whose bonuses assist with multiple [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](victory) conditions. Gaining membership is relatively easy, and their unique infrastructure becomes available sooner than any other society's and does not require a [District%20%28Civ6%29](district) to build. +4 in each city is a massive bonus in the early game, and will help members found a [Pantheon%20%28Civ6%29](pantheon) before all the best ones are taken. While the extra encourages members to found a religion and spread it aggressively, they can instead save it and use it to patronize or purchase [Rock%20Band%20%28Civ6%29](Rock Bands) later in the game. Voidsinger members can focus on either a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Religion](Religious Victory) or a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Culture](Cultural Victory) rather easily (especially thanks to the Old God Obelisk's slot for [Great%20Work%20%28Civ6%29](Great Works) of any type), and the two will go hand in hand if they build [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) and [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) in every city.
Late in the game, members of the Voidsingers can run Dark Summoning projects and use their Cultists to help launch [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29%23Loyalty%20attack](Loyalty attacks) against their neighbors' cities, adding them to their empire without even having to go to war. However, due to the latest change regarding Loyalty pressure, a city will no longer flip just because its Loyalty level is brought down to 0: you also have to exert enough Loyalty pressure on the city to make it "lose" Loyalty, making Cultists harder to use. Moreover, purchasing Cultists is just a waste of and maintenance in a [multiplayer](multiplayer) game - no human player will be inept enough to let their [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers) be surrounded by Cultists and allow them to freely wreak havoc inside their empires. All told, while the Voidsingers are a better choice in [single%20player](single player) games, their first two bonuses are still strong enough to warrant a pick in multiplayer games. Their preferred victory conditions are pretty hard to achieve in multiplayer games anyway, so you should use your extra , , , and for something else.
Recommended civilizations.
The Voidsingers' bonuses initially have strong synergy with [Menelik%20II%20%28Civ6%29](Menelik II's) leader ability, providing any cities he founds on [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills) with and output bonuses equal to 35% of their output. After entering the [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Industrial Era) and unlocking Cultists, they are also very useful to the [Kongolese%20%28Civ6%29](Kongolese), [Eleanor%20of%20Aquitaine%20%28Civ6%29](Eleanor of Aquitaine), and [Jadwiga%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga), all of whom can make better than average use of the Relics created when they lose Cultists. Any civilizations with religious and/or cultural tendencies, such as the [Egyptian%20%28Civ6%29](Egyptians), the [Khmer%20%28Civ6%29](Khmer) and the [M%C4%81ori%20%28Civ6%29](Māori), are generally safe picking the Voidsingers.
Despite having no bonuses towards a Religious or a Cultural Victory, [Roman%20%28Civ6%29](Rome) under [Trajan%20%28Civ6%29](Trajan) also works exceptionally well with the Voidsingers. As a member of this society, the "free real estate" from his leader ability will provide every city he founds or conquers with an Old God Obelisk. If you put a little bit of effort into founding a religion in the early game, with the powerful [Legion%20%28Civ6%29](Legion), you can speed up conquest/conversion tremendously. In the midgame, you can build the [Grand%20Master%27s%20Chapel%20%28Civ6%29](Grand Master's Chapel) to convert your excessive income into a huge army, the maintenance of which will be paid by the Voidsingers' Ritual title. Keep up your output by building Holy Sites and you will be unstoppable.