# Volcano (Civ6)

A Volcano is a type of [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29%23Features](terrain feature) in "".
A Volcano is a type of [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain), and it will confer all relevant bonuses and opportunities (such as the possibility to build an [Aqueduct%20%28Civ6%29](Aqueduct) near it). However, [Mountain%20Tunnel%20%28Civ6%29](Mountain Tunnels), [Qhapaq%20%C3%91an%20%28Civ6%29](Qhapaq Ñan), [Ski%20Resort%20%28Civ6%29](Ski Resorts), and [Machu%20Picchu%20%28Civ6%29](Machu Picchu) can never be built on a Volcano.
Types of Volcanoes.
There are two states a Volcano can be in: dormant or active. A dormant Volcano cannot erupt and thus behaves like a normal Mountain (for the most part). However, a Volcano can switch between dormant and active states at any moment. The chances of this happening depend on the Disaster Intensity setting, which the player chooses in the beginning of the game. In general, higher settings always have a greater percentage of active Volcanoes; on Disaster level 4, 95% of all Volcanoes are always active. Also, volcanic [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](natural wonders) can never go dormant.
Volcanic eruptions.
Active Volcanoes have a chance to erupt, causing damage to anything in the surrounding [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) and fertilizing them with [Volcanic%20Soil%20%28Civ6%29](Volcanic Soil).
Strategy.
"High risk, high reward" sums up living near a Volcano. Towards the end of a game, volcanic tiles can easily be your most productive tiles. The risk will be linked to the Disaster level and Volcano you discover, with [Mount%20Vesuvius%20%28Civ6%29](Mount Vesuvius) at Level 4 being the most risky. [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang's) [Reinforced%20Materials%20%28Civ6%29](Reinforced Materials) title will provide protection to all [Tile%20improvement%20%28Civ6%29](tile improvements), s, and [Building%20%28Civ6%29](buildings) within the [City%20%28Civ6%29](city). Other ways to limit damage are to build cities at least two tiles away from a Volcano, while tiles around the Volcano itself should be limited to tile improvements (especially [Moai%20%28Civ6%29](Moai)). It's easier to repair or replace a tile improvement than to do the same for a building. The first time you establish a city near a volcano or improve Volcanic Soil will also net an [Era%20Score%20%28Civ6%29](Era Score) bonus.
Volcano names.
Volcanoes can have different names based on the first [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) that first finds them. Below is the list of the names and civilization of origin. (If a volcano is discovered by a civilization with no volcano names on the list, or the civilization's list of volcanoes is exhausted, then volcano names will be taken from other civilizations or from volcanoes names that aren't connected to a civilization.)