# War Walker (CTP2)

The War Walker is a [List%20of%20units%20in%20CTP2](unit) in "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)".
Gameplay.
The War Walker is a fearsome beast of a unit, capable of with a barrage of long-range rockets, as well as actively defending against any air units within range. It's superior capabilities combined with its formidable defensive capacity make the War Walker the defensive unit-of-choice for the .
Great Library entry.
The development of cybernetics, itself a culmination of discoveries into neural interface technology and gene therapy, encouraged military theorists to rethink the systems by which a human could pilot a vehicle. Up until the development of the war walker, pilots used manual control devices - joysticks, foot pedals, throttles - to manipulate their vehicle, from supersonic jet to common jeep. The neural interface-based cybernetic control system was a link between the biological and the mechanical, enabling the conversion of thoughts, registered as neurochemical brain impulses, into computer system commands. In this way, a pilot could control his vehicle, including propulsion, movement, targeting and weapons systems, through a combination of neural and manual commands. The feedback systems in war walkers were capable of "remembering" the idiosyncrasies of their human pilots. Veteran pilots were often highly skilled, in large part due to their walkers' ability to anticipate their movement, targeting and weapon combination preferences. The war walker soon became one of the most feared military entities in the world, largely due to a superstition that walkers could continue to effectively fight even if their pilots died in the "rig." Although the notion of the sentient, un-piloted war walker was almost certainly a legend, this blurred line between man and machine only served to increase the ominous mystique of this terrible machine.