# War-Cart (Civ6)

The War-Cart is a [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique) [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Heavy%20cavalry](heavy cavalry unit) of the [Sumerian%20%28Civ6%29](Sumerian) [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It is available without any technological research.
Strategy.
The War-Cart is the premier unique unit of the Ancient Era. Compared to the [Heavy%20Chariot%20%28Civ6%29](Heavy Chariot), it is superior in every way - it's stronger, faster, has a lower and no maintenance cost, is available from the start of the game, and has no vulnerability to [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Anti-cavalry](anti-cavalry units). This makes the Sumerians a terrifying early rusher. A determined player should start building War-Carts from the beginning of the game, and since many copies of this unit alone can form a powerful army, make sure not to waste your precious on [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scouts), [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors) or [Slinger%20%28Civ6%29](Slingers). Having your most powerful asset available right from the get-go also means if you don't fully take advantage of it, your civilization will enter later stages of the game without anything going for itself. 
Sumeria direly needs a successful rush with War-Carts in order to stay competitive, all other bonuses of theirs are purely complimentary and cannot win games on their own. They need to be able to secure a good foundation, starting with a vast empire next to severely weakened neighbors. For this reason, any civilization with a powerful unique unit in the Ancient Era is a baneful neighbor for Sumeria, most notably the [Aztec%20%28Civ6%29](Aztec), [Gallic%20%28Civ6%29](Gauls), and [Nubian%20%28Civ6%29](Nubia). [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam), thanks to their incredibly overpowered defense mechanic and starting bias, is also a nightmare for Sumeria. There is very little Sumeria can plan when spawning next to these civilizations; you have to rely on your luck (how good your starting location and are, and how ill-prepared your neighbors are).
Due to the nature of Sumeria and how dependent it is on a good War-Cart rush, it is one of, if not flat out the worst civilization to play on high difficulty. The higher the difficulty and the wider the map is, the worse Sumeria becomes. For example, on Deity, the AIs start with 5 Warriors, 4 global Combat Strength bonus, 50% extra experience from combat for quick healing and s and 100% extra to build even more units. The key strategy for Deity is about catching up and trying not to confront the AIs at their strongest, a luxury that Sumeria cannot afford. They have to start their conquest directly into the AIs' walls of units, and have to rely on the AIs' inability to properly defend themselves, and if this doesn't work out, Sumeria becomes a vanilla civilization with very little going for themselves. And of course, the wider the map is, the longer the game will last, the more time other civilizations will have to use their much more lasting bonuses. Sumeria should only be played if you want a difficult challenge, as it is not well equipped for those particular environments.
Bugs.
Because of the way the War-Cart's immunity to anti-cavalry units was coded, all modifiers that affect heavy cavalry units must be explicitly assigned to War-Carts to make them behave as if they are part of this unit class. Consequently, War-Carts are unaffected by certain modifiers that would otherwise affect them, such as those from [Matterhorn%20%28Civ6%29](Alpine Training) and [Twilight%20Valor%20%28Civ6%29](Twilight Valor), and can't be captured by [Genghis%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Genghis Khan).