# Warfare (Civ5)

Evaluating Warfare in Civ5 BNW.
There have been a plethora of writers who have spent a lot of time addressing this topic; my goal is to simply give the foundation for more advanced warfare play. When starting a war in Civ5 you must determine these following factors:
A fair and accurate assessment of the previous bullet points will lead to a greater knowledge of the conflict to come. And with that knowledge it becomes even easier to crush your enemies!
Next up we examine the goals of fighting pitched battles in large battlefields. There are many ways to engage an enemy, but there are only a few that will prove effective enough to win that engagement. One of the biggest tactical flaws many people commit in Civ5 BNW is that they spread out their forces. Millennia of warfare has taught military commanders that a concentrated force at the opponent's "weakest" point proves devastating to the enemy and can rip a whole through their lines of defenses. Another important tactic to consider is the mobility of your force. Without maneuver combat cannot exist. Try keeping a mobile reserve to exploit the gap that your concentrated force gave you. The above pointers only apply when on the offensive. The defensive war does not take brilliance, just vigilance and manpower. The need for rapid cavalry and tanks is lessened and a greater emphasis is put into strong, frontline infantry units that are capable of holding the line.
What have we learned? A mobile force that is concentrated on the enemy's weak point will prove devastating. Exploiting gaps that your initial assault created is vital to maintaining momentum. Another tactical flaw that many commanders frequently make is that they spread out ranged units’ firepower. Keep it concentrated! It is far better to completely destroy a quarter of the foe's units than to give quarter damage to all of unit's! Tight formations amassed at the point of conflict are necessary for an effective offensive war. This said, later on in the game when atomic weapons become available, amassed forces can be easily decimated in one fell swoop.
The biggest single advantage I have witnessed players forfeit is the use of information. According to Sun Tzu, all war is based on deception, that and the gathering of intelligence of enemy positions. It is crucial to scout the enemy forces and at the very least to know the terrain and routes of attack, supply, and defense. With this knowledge, a canny commander can sneak a small, fast unit behind enemy lines and ambush relief forces as well as ruining infrastructure and trade routes, bringing his economy to a half while your treasury is cushioned.
Some other map specific strategies are as follows:
Reading military history will give you invaluable insight into different scenarios, tactics, and battles you might face. With that knowledge in hand, you gain a tactical advantage over the enemy. Good luck, commander!
By: Gandhi's Follower
Note: I would greatly appreciate it if anyone who uses the source would kindly cite the source as well. The fifteen minutes spent writing this need to be recognized.