# Weather Controller (CivBE)

Strategy.
The Weather Controller satellite is the product of advanced physical research into the climate of this new planet. It is not only able to control the weather patterns so that the affected zone becomes more fertile, but sometimes it is actually able to 'dig out' hidden resources to the surface, bringing your colony additional economical advantage. Use it whenever you can!
Weather Controllers only produce resources on unimproved tiles. Farms and mines and other resources count as improvements, however roads, mag rails, units, forests and miasma do not.
If you have the production available is often more profitable to deorbit and replace your Weather Controller immediately after its first resource is created. This leads to more resources created over time.
Extended orbital unit bonuses such as the Slavs passive (20% extra orbital time) and the Superior Engineering Industry virtue do not effect the rate or the number of resources generated by the Weather Controller. Even with the bonuses, the satellite will only make 1-2 resources within its first 60 turns of existence. After 60 turns it will not create any resources. This makes those bonuses useless when you're trying to maximize the number of resources generated.
Game Information.
Orbital Unit. +1 on tiles you own. Generates 1 to 2 new Basic Resources on unimproved tiles across its lifespan.
History.
Similar to the [Solar%20Collector%20%28CivBE%29](Solar Collector), the Weather Controller allows a colony to utilize their orbital network for the purpose of enriching their planetary lives. Weather Controllers utilize precise electrical-magnetic charges to create favorable weather for all tiles within its range. This allows a colony to optimize their Food production, increasing their stores per owned tile. As an added bonus, the controlled weather has been known to change the nature of unimproved areas, allowing them to occasionally spawn Basic Resources.