# Wonders of the Ancient World (Civ5)

Wonders of the Ancient World is a [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ5](scenario) in "[Civilization%20V](Civilization V)", released with the .
Description.
Oh great leader, may the visions of grand construction and transcendent architecture guide your rule! Your fledgling civilization has a glorious opportunity to settle and cultivate this Fertile Crescent. In time, your people will build thriving cities and grow strong in the ways of war, trade, science and the arts. It is only natural that you build great monuments to celebrate these successes! You should know, your rivals won't stand by idly while you construct the world's greatest Wonders, so you should prepare your cities to build these marvels first. Only the civilization with the most magnificent monuments, the grandest Wonders the world has ever known, shall be revered for the rest of time!
Gameplay.
The scenario is a contest between five ancient [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilizations) to have the highest score when the nine available [List%20of%20wonders%20in%20Civ5](wonders) are built. The wonders in the scenario are the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World: [Pyramids%20%28Civ5%29](the Great Pyramid of Giza), [Hanging%20Gardens%20%28Civ5%29](the Hanging Gardens of Babylon), [Temple%20of%20Artemis%20%28Civ5%29](the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus), [Statue%20of%20Zeus%20%28Civ5%29](the Statue of Zeus at Olympia), [Mausoleum%20of%20Halicarnassus%20%28Civ5%29](the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus), [Colossus%20%28Civ5%29](the Colossus of Rhodes), and [Great%20Lighthouse%20%28Civ5%29](the Lighthouse of Alexandria); plus two additional wonders, [Oracle%20%28Civ5%29](the Oracle of Delphi) and [Great%20Library%20%28Civ5%29](the Library of Alexandria).
The wonders are not unlocked by technologies, but rather by earning the right to build them through the accumulation of various points, such as Total Gross Income, Total Accumulated Culture, Total Accumulated Great General Points, and Number of Technologies. The exception to this is the Oracle, which is available from the start. Bringing a Great Person within 2 hexes of the city that built the Oracle will allow you to see the wonder progress of your rivals for five turns. Doing this will not expend the Great Person, but will make them unable to consult the Oracle again, so if you have built the Oracle, it is advisable to have every Great Person you acquire consult the Oracle before you expend them.
The pace of research and policy acquisition is slowed so players can "immerse [themselves] in this distant age." Cities cannot be razed, so wonders cannot be destroyed. For every wonder owned by a civ, they gain 500 victory points, but building a wonder grants the civ that built it 1,000 victory points. This means, if you build a wonder and prevent it from being taken over, you will get 1,500 victory points for it. Therefore, it is recommended that you should try to aggressively build the wonders, instead of trying to conquer them. However, you can still win by conquering all four enemy capitals before all nine wonders are built, even if you don't have the highest score.
Strategy.
The placement of cities is also particularly important; firstly, two of the wonders require a coastal city. (The default [Map%20%28Civ5%29](map) is Inland Sea and fairly small, so if the edge of the map is sighted, send your scouts in the opposite direction.) A second notable change is that enemy cities cannot be razed once conquered – forward settling becomes particularly problematic due to large {{Unhappiness5}} penalties and poor [AI](AI) placement. In accordance with the slow advancement of technology, Greece has the easiest time due to City-State luxuries and two helpful [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique units). The horse-less [War%20Chariot%20%28Civ5%29](War Chariot) of Egypt continues to be powerful; the Sumerians have the Babylon bonus and some situational unique items.
Civilizations.
You can play as one of five civilizations in the scenario, three of which are already present in the game ([Egyptian%20%28Civ5%29](Egypt), [Persian%20%28Civ5%29](Persia), and [Greek%20%28Civ5%29](Greece)), while the other two are unique to the scenario (Sumer and the Hittites). Some of the city lists have been changed in this scenario to better reflect their locations on the scenario's Historical map. The Egyptian ability has been changed so as to not give them an unfair advantage when building wonders in the scenario, and their [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](unique building) has also been changed for unknown reasons.
Special features.
Natural wonders.
They appear in their historic locations on the Historical map. The randomized map uses some of the original [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ5%29](natural wonders) as well.