# Wonder (CivRev)

Wonders in "[Civilization%20Revolution](Civilization Revolution)" are an important aspect of gameplay. They are divided into three groups: Ancient, Medieval and Modern. Ancient Wonders can be built early in the game (after one or two [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20CivRev](technologies) have been researched), but can become [obsolete](obsolete) fairly quickly as other [List%20of%20civilizations%20in%20CivRev](civilizations) develop their technologies. Medieval Wonders include the [Magna%20Carta%20%28CivRev%29](Magna Carta), which never becomes obsolete, and the [Himeji%20Samurai%20Castle%20%28CivRev%29](Himeji Samurai Castle), which can become obsolete if another player's civilization discovers [Communism%20%28technology%29%20%28CivRev%29](Communism). Modern Wonders don't become obsolete.
Building wonders contributes towards satisfying the requirements for being able to build the [United%20Nations%20%28CivRev%29](United Nations), while amassing 20,000 [Gold%20%28currency%29%20%28CivRev%29](gold) qualifies one to build the [World%20Bank%20%28CivRev%29](World Bank). Being the first to finish building the United Nations or the World Bank will win the game (via [Victory%20%28CivRev%29](Cultural and Economic Victories), respectively).
Defensive Value.
They can also offer military benefits to the players by granting certain bonuses in addition to expanding the civilization. The [Great%20Wall%20%28CivRev%29](Great Wall) forces all other civilizations to offer peace to you until another civilization discovers [Engineering%20%28CivRev%29](Engineering). The Himeji Samurai Castle gives the owner's forces a +1 bonus to their attack (+3 for an [Army%20%28CivRev%29](Army), which is 3 [List%20of%20units%20in%20CivRev](units)). [Hollywood%20%28CivRev%29](Hollywood) nullifies the protection opponents' [Walls%20%28CivRev%29](Walls) provide from flipping (switching sides), while still allowing the owner's Walls to function in this respect.
Building wonders will add towards qualifying to be able to have a [Culture%20%28CivRev%29](Culture) win. A total of 20 [Great%20Person%20%28CivRev%29](Great People), switched [City%20%28CivRev%29](cities) and wonders are required before the United Nations can be built. The United Nations is also a wonder but doesn't count towards the total required. This is one of the four ways to win "Civilization Revolution".
Production bank.
Since wonders require many turns worth of resources, especially early in the game, they can be a handy way to bank [Production%20%28CivRev%29](production) points. Simply switch to another use before the wonder is completed.
Timing.
Timing the completion of wonders such as [Leonardo%27s%20Workshop%20%28CivRev%29](Leonardo's Workshop) can be very important. Built too soon, the unit upgrades will be less than impressive.