# Woods (Civ6)

Woods (sometimes called Forests) are a widespread [Terrain%20%28Civ6%29%23Features](terrain feature) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". Woods appear on flat and [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](hilled) {{Link6|Grassland}}, {{Link6|Plains}}, and {{Link6|Tundra}} [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles).
Types of Woods.
There are actually two variants of Woods, which become distinguished after discovering the [Conservation%20%28Civ6%29](Conservation) [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civic) ([Medieval%20Faires%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Faires) if playing as [Vietnamese%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam)):
Strategy.
Woods have many uses throughout the game. Forests ensure productivity and protection for civilizations living within them, and provide adjacency bonuses to Holy Sites. Once [Machinery%20%28Civ6%29](Machinery) (or, in "", [Construction%20%28Civ6%29](Construction)) has been researched, [Lumber%20Mill%20%28Civ6%29](Lumber Mills) can be built to further increase their {{Production6}}.
Woods can become especially useful in flatlands (regions without [Hills%20%28Civ6%29](Hills)) - they are the only {{Production6}} booster there, barring the odd [Resource%20%28Civ6%29](resource) that can be improved with a [Mine%20%28Civ6%29](Mine) or [Quarry%20%28Civ6%29](Quarry).
In contrast to [Rainforest%20%28Civ6%29](Rainforests), Woods increase the Appeal of adjacent tiles, making them ideal for [Neighborhood%20%28Civ6%29](Neighborhoods) or tourist attractions. The Conservation civic also allows Builders to plant second-growth Woods on any resource-free tile where Woods could normally grow - while they don't have as much Appeal as old-growth Woods, they can be used to dress up [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and improve Tundra tiles. Conservation also gives a +1 Appeal on the Woods tile itself for old-growth Woods; this usually is not very useful (because most stuff that depends on Appeal will remove the Woods), except when attempting to designate a [National%20Park%20%28Civ6%29](National Park). Since the individual Appeal of each and every tile counts in this situation, you may find it possible to use Woods tiles which previously didn't have enough Appeal to be included in the Park. You can even Plant Woods in a vertical diamond-shaped area to gain +2 Appeal for the top and bottom tiles and +3 Appeal for the side tiles - this all but ensures they will have the minimum Appeal needed to designate a National Park.
Removing Woods.
After researching [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining), Woods can be:
As mentioned [%23Types%20of%20Woods](above), removing second-growth Woods will not provide any {{Production6}}, so if a city needs the {{Production6}} more than the Appeal, it's a good idea to remove the Woods and then re-plant them after researching Conservation.