# World Congress (Civ6)

The World Congress is a new gameplay mechanic in ' and is the key to the new [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Diplomacy](Diplomatic Victory). It is in many ways similar to the [World%20Congress%20%28Civ5%29](World Congress) from ', but also differs in some key aspects.
Introduction.
The World Congress is a place where all [Leaders%20%28Civ6%29](leaders) in the game (or at least those who haven't been eliminated yet) meet to discuss proposals of importance to the world and vote for or against them, according to their benefit, or to the detriment of their competitors. The voting power of each leader depends on their accumulated .
Since this sort of global-level civilized interaction is unthinkable in the very dawn of history (while newly-established empires are still fighting to keep their own against nature and barbarian tribes), the World Congress convenes only when the world enters the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era).
Mechanics.
World Congress sessions take place during their own phase, which occurs after all [AI](AI) players have had their turns, but "before" the player can start his or her next turn. During this phase the player is free to close the session panel temporarily in order to better understand which outcomes and targets suit them the best; however, the player will be unable to move [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) or issue any kind of order. The World Congress phase will only be ended when all votes for all proposals brought forth are submitted and confirmed.
It is fully possible, and in fact common in the first few regular sessions, that the player has not met all leaders in the world. They will nevertheless still vote, but they will appear as question marks, preserving the discovery flavor of the game.
The World Congress meets for two distinct types of sessions: Regular and Special Sessions. The very first meeting is always a Regular Session; if conditions, for a Special Session are met earlier, this Special Session will be scheduled, but put on hold and called only after the first Regular Session has passed.
Regular Sessions.
Regular Sessions are the main manifestation of the Congress' mechanics; at them matters of mutual interest to all are discussed which are relevant to the current [Era%20%28Civ6%29](World Era). These sessions are pre-scheduled, and take place every 30 turns on Standard [Speed%20%28Civ6%29](speed), starting from the turn after which the world enters the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). The frequency of Regular Sessions scales with game speed.
In each session, 2 Resolutions are proposed (supposedly by the rotational leader of the Congress), which make decisions on currently relevant topics in the world, such as border treaties, preferred religion, trade pacts, and climate. But from the [Modern%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Modern Era) onward leaders diversify their interests, while at the same time politics enter a new level of complexity. Thus, the Diplomatic Victory Resolution enters as a third option which is always available, while a [Competitions%20%28Civ6%29](scored competition) of some kind enters as a fourth option.
The exact resolutions proposed for discussion are randomized, but their occurrence is era appropriate and the probabilities are based on recent world events. For example, Climate Accords does not appear in the [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance Era), and it is more likely to be proposed with increasing [Climate%20%28Civ6%29%23Phases%20of%20Climate%20Change](Climate Change) stages.
All civilizations which are still in the game are required to vote on all proposed Resolutions. For the exact mechanics of the voting process, see [%23Voting](below).
Resolutions.
Resolutions are the main proposals discussed and enacted in Regular World Congress sessions. Unlike the Emergencies and other possible results of a Special Session (which may never occur), the effects of Resolutions are mandatory for all, and are thus always sure to affect the world after the start of the Medieval Era. Each Resolution passed will function until the next World Congress Session (that is, for the next 30 turns). In essence, Resolutions are minor game mods which change some basic game rule for the next 30 turns.
In a major development since "Civilization V: Brave New World", there are two possible Outcomes for each resolution, which have opposite effects. Furthermore, each outcome may have many possible Targets: players, districts, currency types, etc.
For example, the Urban Development Treaty has two possible Outcomes: boost towards all buildings in a certain type of district, or ban the construction of any new buildings in that type of district. Each of these Outcomes can apply to any of the district types, and thus the district types are the Targets. Each player must select only one Outcome and one Target.
Scored Competitions.
The second major type of events discussed and undertaken in the World Congress' Regular Sessions are Scored Competitions. These are events which run for a specific number of turns (usually 30), during which all participants do something to compete towards a particular goal. Note that, unlike Resolutions, not everyone is required to participate in a Scored Competition! If a civilization decides to vote against enacting a Scored Competition, this civilization won't participate and won't be able to win any rewards.
Scored Competitions are usually undertaken in the late game. Exceptions are the [Aid%20Request%20%28Civ6%29](Aid Request) and the [Military%20Aid%20Request%20%28Civ6%29](Military Aid Request), which are actually meant to respond to game events (like Emergencies) These competitions may be asked for via a Special Session of the Congress every time a civilization gets hit by a severe natural [Disasters%20%28Civ6%29](disaster) or constantly bullied by another civilization, and awards Diplomatic Victory points on completion.
Special Sessions.
Special Sessions are meant to respond immediately to game-changing events in the world. A Special Session may be called to respond to a severe [Disasters%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Disaster) or an Emergency caused by the actions of a civilization. In fact, Special Sessions now replace the [Emergencies%20%28Civ6%29](Emergencies) in "", incorporating both their purpose and mechanics via the World Congress. There are two conditions for a Special Session to occur:
Unlike Regular Sessions, Special Sessions may take place at any moment in the game as long as the previous session - Regular or Special - took place 15 turns or prior on Standard speed. If a condition for a Special Session occurs, but the previous Session was within 15 turns, the opportunity to call it will be put on hold and will wait for the next possible turn. If the next Regular Session is within the 15-turn timeframe, the Special Session call opportunity will occur at the same time as the Regular Session.
Once called, the Special Session will occur after the next turn. In practice, this means that between the special event causing the session, and the beginning of any actual Emergency or Relief project there will be a hiatus of (at least) 2 turns: one turn during which the civilizations will have the opportunity to call the session, and another one during which they will prepare to attend the session.
The condition of an Emergency does not vanish with the passing of time. For example, suppose a [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) is conquered by Civ A; Civ B, C, D all have sent s to that city-state, which gives them cause to call a City-State Emergency. However, the world is still in the [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) or [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era), during which the World Congress doesn't yet meet. Whenever the world reaches the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) and the World Congress is unlocked, if Civ A still occupies the said city-state, Civs B, C, and D will be able to immediately call a Special Session.
In another example, suppose that the same situation occurs, but that Civs B, C, and D are all declared friends of Civ A at the time of conquest. (Declare Friendship serves as a non-aggression pact in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)".) The declared Friendship means no affected civilizations qualify to propose an Emergency! This is consistent with the Friendship declaration because passing the Emergency means war with the aggressor: Civ A. But when the Friendship expires, and a Special Session may be held (with the 15-turn limit checked), even if this was hundreds of turns later, an Emergency can still be called as long as the city-state in question is still under Civ A and has not changed hands.
Note that multiple Emergencies may be voted in the same Special Session, if the aforementioned conditions have been met for more than one case in the last turns (i.e., there has been a triggering event, and an interested civilization has spent 30 ). It isn't rare for this to happen, especially towards the late game, when disasters and aggressive actions become more common.
Once a Special Session begins, all civilizations called to it are required to vote on all eligible topics. The Outcomes in Special Sessions are either to pass a resolution reacting to the emergency reason, or to skip it. Civilizations may vote "For" or "Against," and those which voted Against are not required to participate in the Emergency or Competition, even if it passes. For example, if a City-State Emergency is proposed, a civilization which votes Against won't go to war with the target even if the competition actually occurs.
Also note that, unlike Regular Sessions, only some civilizations may be called to participate in Special Sessions, particularly in the case of Emergencies. This often depends on friendship status and alliances (the ally of a civilization targeted for an Emergency won't be called to participate, since it's clear how they stand). In the case of a City-State Emergency, only civilizations that have met the city-state in question are called to vote.
For more details and a full list of Emergencies and their particulars, head [Emergency%20%28Civ6%29](here).
Voting.
All decisions of the World Congress are made by voting by all eligible civilizations currently participating. In another major development since "Civilization V: Brave New World", the voting process is based on a brand new type of currency: . [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](City-states) don't mean more votes anymore (but they may help a player acquire more ), and in fact there is no hard upper limit on how many votes a player may have for any particular proposal of any session of the World Congress - it all depends on how much they have at the moment. The system is deceptively simple: the first vote for each civilization for each Resolution is free. The cost of each subsequent vote, however, scales linearly by a factor of 10. For example, three more votes cost 60 (10 * 1 + 10 * 2 + 10 * 3) additional . In practice, it is really difficult to gain enough to cast more than 10 votes on a single item on the World Congress agenda.
Note that votes themselves cannot be negotiated or traded either during a World Congress Session, or outside of it! However, can and will be freely traded as part of any normal trading negotiation.
Outcomes mechanics.
For each Regular session resolution, every civilization will first choose one of the two outcomes. If there are multiple possible targets within that outcome, the civilization will then choose a single target. A target may be a civilization or it could be a district, a type of terrain feature, or a kind of luxury resource - it all depends on the type of resolution being voted on.
The votes are first tallied to decide which Outcome gets passed. In this step, votes with different targets but the same outcome are aggregated. Once an outcome is decided, the votes for this outcome will then decide the target - if any. Each voting step is based on plurality - the option with the most votes wins. Ties are broken by the proportion of a player commits.
After the [June%202019%20Update%20%28Civ6%29](June 2019 Update) every civilization which voted for the outcome/target combo that eventually won gets 1 Diplomatic Victory point. Note that this only works for Resolutions and the Diplomatic Victory vote, but not for Competitions vote.
Since each Resolution has two possible Outcomes and each Outcome may have a number of possible targets, there are 3 possibilities for each player, in some of which their spent are refunded:
Diplomatic Victory.
Starting from the Modern Era, a Resolution on Diplomatic Victory points will always be available as the 3rd Resolution in the Regular Session.
The two possible Outcomes are:
The logic of a Diplomatic Victory vote is, of course, skewed by necessity - no civilization will vote for another to become the leader of the free world! However, when a single civilization starts approaching the 20 necessary points for a Diplomatic Victory, most civilizations will concentrate their efforts of barring that civilization from winning (by voting for the Lose Victory Points outcome).
If a player votes for himself or herself with the option "Take away 2 Diplomatic Victory Points", and this option is validated, the player will lose only 1 point (because voting for the winning result awards the player a point).
List of Regular Session Resolutions.
Unimplemented Resolutions.
Comments in the XML files indicate that these resolutions have not been implemented in the game yet.
Strategy.
List of AI behaviors.
If the winning (human) player expects to have insufficient votes to counter all the opposing votes, the player should expect the game to last longer and it is thus wise to spend on other resolutions if they are also important. If the winning player expects to be close to having a tie, the player may find it advantageous to instead commit all of their in the hope of winning the tiebreaker.
Sometimes, voting along the likely Outcome of a competing player but on a different Target can waste 50% of their , since usually an Outcome with a different Target than that desired is a different resolution altogether from the perspective of that player and won't help them (but will cost them the ).
Diplomatic Victory vote.
Even if the player has more than all AI players together, the AI players can (and usually will) still have enough votes to pass the option "Take away 2 Diplomatic Victory Points" against the player. This is because the cost for one player is significantly higher with each added vote (the cost rises quadratically with regard to number of votes), and multiple civilizations pooling votes spend significantly less than a single civilization wishing to brute force the opposite outcome. This puts emphasis on the generation of for those seeking a Diplomatic Victory, especially when victory is close.
On higher [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty levels), it may be impossible for the player to overrule the AIs for the Diplomatic Victory vote. Diplomatic Victory is still possible with the strategy of voting for oneself to "Take away 2 Diplomatic Victory Points" and thus losing only 1 point for this particular resolution (see [%23Diplomatic%20Victory](above)). When winning the points for the other two resolutions, the net result will be +1 point for the player (+2 for regular resolutions, -2 from the Diplomatic Victory vote, +1 for voting for the winning outcome), allowing for slow progress toward victory.