# World War II era (CTP2)

 
World War II (1939-1945 conflict) or (1930-1957 time period) is an era in the game that's part of 2 modpacks without the use of a mod-switching utility either Western Front or Global. There is also the Redfront campaign (also called Eastern Front campaign) but that requires a modswitcher utility to function. This page will mainly focus on Western Front and Global campaigns. This Era is a subset of the Modern Age era that comes with the game. If this along with the Classical era are counted as separate eras, then the game has 7 Eras in total that are all playable.
Western Front Mod.
This campaign begins in May 1940 depending on which player you select. The campaign can either be long or short. For the Germans there is a time limit and the campaign only goes to August 1940. If the French are playing and they conquer the Germans they get a diplomatic victory, in which case there is no time limit and the game can last for the rest of the war and beyond, depending on if you edit the turn length text file for this possibility. There are 5 players, Germany, France, Belgium, The Netherlands, and Britain. If you pick Belgium, The Netherlands or Britain you will lose the scenario because they cannot get the diplomatic victory, even if you conquer the German cities. For best results in playing this scenario it is recommended by Activision that you play as the French and then conquer all German held cities and eliminate that player from the game, in order for you win the diplomatic victory. You will also be able to see a history of the world monologue. If you play as Germany you will need to occupy all other cities in other to get the blood lust victory and win the other ending, which will instead give you a conquest monologue.
Global Mod/ World War II Campaign.
This Global Campaign begins in December 1941 and lasts for the remainder of the war. There are 7 players in this mod: the British Alliance, consisting of Britain and France, America, the Soviet Union, Germany, Japan, China, and the Neutral countries (all other countries). Of these 7 players it is recommended to play as either the British Alliance or the US. The British Commonwealth incorporates France, giving them control of about 22% of the world surface, though with France this rises to approximately 40%. This also gives them a large advantage in Victory Points. A player controlling the British Alliance should see two goals: to retake France from Germany and Indo-China from Japan. America is also advised as it controls a large amount of territory. The main theme of America is to become a conqueror akin to Alexander the Great. Its also advisable to play as the Americans because they begin the game already with a very large empire but the main theme for them is to become a conqueror akin to Alexander the Great. If the Americans play all Allied offensives with America leading them instead of Britain, this will give them enough Victory Points to achieve victory. China is not generally played, because even after China is united one cannot amass enough Victory Points to win the game. To unite China one must liberate Eastern China from the Japanese, as well as taking Tibet from the Neutral countries. One can optionally take Mongolia from them if one wishes.     
China is also less played because World Wonders have been disabled, so China lacks both the Great Wall and Forbidden City (both worth 500 Victory Points). It should be noted that the Diplomatic Peace option is disabled, so if one eventually goes past the end of World War II, war will still continue. There is no time limit in this mod, so the player is free to play for as long as they like.
In the late part of the game, the Neutral Countries will eventually gain independent states across the globe after the decolonization period arrives, also despite the gaining of any victory points by re-taking the great wall of China and the forbidden city wonders or even concerning the one city on the map afterwards known either as Pyongyang or North Korea this still with not be enough for the Chinese civilization to achieve enough victory points for a victory only gives them enough victory points for a stalemate which is only marginally better than a Chinese Defeat if the Chinese can not retake the rest of China by the year 1960 AD. Due to these factors its recomended by Activision to just play as either the British or the Americans. Even after the Americans gave up their occupation of Europe and else where they eventually gained Canada and Mexico in 1994 as part of a alliance and will thus get enough victory points to be winners after 1994.  
Trivia.
This scenario was released in 2009 at the request of a poster in a forum that requested it in 2002. This scenario is known as Disarm but it was originally based on the 2194 Days of War scenario by a user named captain Nemo for Civilization II.
Global Mod/New Imperialism ages.
The 20th century campaign begins in January 1860 and lasts for 1200 turns until January 1958. There are 27 civilizations to choose from. The scenario uses the same units as the Global World War II mod. The scenario starts from the American Civil War and ends with the creation of the European Union which also coincides with the discovery of genetics, allowing the creation of the Human Genome project. The scenario is divided into 3 different ages, the Late Renaissance, the Early Modern and the Late Modern eras.
Technologies.
Some of the technologies used in the second world war  were researchable as early as the 1860s in the decades leading up to World War II. A notable example was the Machine Gun, which was discovered in 1862 when the first Gatling Gun was invented. Every technology you discover gives you 10 victory points.
Custom Technologies