# Writing (Civ6)

 
Writing is an [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Era) [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technology) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". It can be hurried by meeting another major [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization).
Strategy.
With the ability to write comes the ability to store information for future generations. This is a quantum leap for a civilization, which can now depend on a more reliable means to transfer knowledge to their heirs than oral history. And thus the importance of the pursuit of knowledge for the sake of knowledge becomes apparent. You can now construct your second , the [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus), and its first [Building%20%28Civ6%29](building), the [Library%20%28Civ6%29](Library), where you can permanently store the written knowledge of your civilization.
Writing is pretty easy to research (you only need [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery) before that), and you can rush it to quickly build a useful in all circumstances. Writing is also required to unlock most of the central part of the [List%20of%20technologies%20in%20Civ6](tech tree), so you will need it eventually. Apart from that, however, there are few reasons to prioritize Writing over techs like [Astrology%20%28Civ6%29](Astrology) (which puts you on the path to your own [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion)), [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working) (which develops your military and reveals another [Resource%20%28Civ6%29%23Strategic](strategic resource)), [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery), or any other tech that unlocks infrastructure - get these first to boost your [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) development, then Writing will come naturally.