# XCOM Squad (Civ5)

Game Info.
Advanced tactical unit of the [Information%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Information Era). Upgrades from the [Paratrooper%20%28Civ5%29](Paratrooper).
Strategy.
The XCOM Squad is an elite team of soldiers based on the technology pioneered by the [w%3Ac%3Axcom%3AXCOM%20%28Organization%29](XCOM Initiative). When starting the turn in friendly [Territory%20%28Civ5%29](territory) this squad can be dropped up to 40 [hex](hex)es away. Deploy these units into areas where the danger level is out of this world.
With high combat strength (100) that is only matched by the [Modern%20Armor%20%28Civ5%29](Modern Armor) and outmatched by the [Giant%20Death%20Robot%20%28Civ5%29](Giant Death Robot), the XCOM Squad is the strongest unit that requires no [Resources%20%28Civ5%29](resources). Unlike the other two units, they can use defense, meaning they can form a solid defensive line. However, they lack the mobility of the other powerful late-game units.
The tremendous paradrop range of XCOM Squads makes them fantastic for diversions. One or a few of these units can paradrop far into enemy land to attack weakly defended [City%20%28Civ5%29](cities) or pillage the area, giving them time to destroy strategic resources and debilitate opposing players' armies before the bulk of their forces can arrive. They can also quickly reach a defensive position, which lets them use their high strength to delay enemy forces at a choke point. And of course, paradropping allows them to quickly reinforce your front line.
The XCOM Squad is particularly effective when preceded by a nuclear strike. Use [Nuclear%20Submarine%20%28Civ5%29](Nuclear Submarines) or [Missile%20Cruiser%20%28Civ5%29](Missile Cruisers) to fire [Nuclear%20Missile%20%28Civ5%29](Nuclear Missiles) at an enemy city, then airdrop the XCOM Squad to successfully capture and annex/puppet it.
Although their combat strength is high, XCOM Squads can still be beaten, notably by the Giant Death Robot (which is also much more mobile), or by less advanced units that have ranged support. This may put them in danger if they are unable to retreat. Also, be aware that they cannot drop into hexes that are not under observation by friendly units.
Interestingly, the 9-hex range of the Paratrooper's paradrop [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29%23Unit%20abilities](ability) stacks with the 40-hex range of the XCOM Squad's Skyranger ability, giving XCOM Squads that are upgraded from Paratroopers a massive 49-tile paradrop range. Such XCOM Squads will also retain the Paratrooper's "No Movement Cost to Pillage" ability, giving players a good incentive to train Paratroopers and then upgrade them for the increased paradrop range and ability to pillage tiles without expending {{Movement5}}.