# Ziggurat (Civ4)

The Ziggurat is the [Sumerian%20%28Civ4%29](Sumerian) version of the [Courthouse%20%28Civ4%29](Courthouse). It costs 30 less on normal speed games and is also available earlier than the standard Courthouse.
Strategy.
Early, cheap Courthouses support the [Vulture%20%28Civ4%29](Vulture's) conquests nicely. Researching [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ4%29](Bronze Working) early to ensure you can find a supply of [Copper%20%28Civ4%29](Copper), followed by heading to [Priesthood%20%28Civ4%29](Priesthood) while building Vultures means you can get straight to building Ziggurats to lower the burden of these new cities. As [Gilgamesh%20%28Civ4%29](Gilgamesh) is a Creative leader, you could start building them as soon as you take a city.
Alternatively, if you're using Unrestricted Leaders, an Organised leader can get this building up for a mere 45 hammers - only 5 more than a [Swordsman%20%28Civ4%29](Swordsman). This is particularly effective in low-production areas that may have a hard time getting up a [Courthouse%20%28Civ4%29](Courthouse).
Another use of Ziggurats is to secure plenty of land very early on supported by a strong early economy, and using Gilgamesh's Protective trait to secure it. This is particularly useful to reach [Ivory%20%28Civ4%29](Ivory) early for [War%20Elephant%20%28Civ4%29](War Elephants) or other valuable resources.
Finally, a third use of Ziggurats lies in espionage. Aside from the [Palace%20%28Civ4%29](Palace), Courthouses are the first buildings that supply it, and having them much earlier on in the game means you can build a strong espionage ratio with rivals, and see their cities or research. The power of prediction, large borders "and" the Protective trait will make it particularly hard for opponents to attack you in the Classical Era.