# Zone of control (Civ6)

Zone of control (abbreviated ZOC or ZoC) is a game mechanic in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)" and its expansions that affects [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](unit) [Movement%20%28Civ6%29](movement). It prevents a unit from entering a [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tile) adjacent to an enemy unit and moving out of it within the same turn; attacks against units in said tiles, however, can be made normally.
Much of the information here is originally from a [CivFanatics](CivFanatics) info page by Victoria, and has been updated and expounded upon by editors of this wiki.
Exertion.
Many units and certain [District%20%28Civ6%29](districts) exert zone of control against all hostile units - specifically, those of [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](Barbarians), [Free%20Cities%20%28Civ6%29](Free Cities), and any [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) or [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-state) with which their owner is at war. They are:
Under normal circumstances, a zone of control affects all adjacent tiles in the unit's native element - in other words, land units (whether on land or embarked) do not exert zone of control on water tiles and naval units do not exert zone of control on land tiles. Defensible {{District6}}s, however, exert zone of control on all adjacent land and water tiles (unless pillaged). Embarked land units exert zone of control on the tile they occupy, which can be helpful when trying to put a [Coastal%20%28Civ6%29](coastal) [City%20%28Civ6%29](city) under [City%20combat%20%28Civ6%29%23Siege](siege).
Units cannot exert zone of control on tiles across a [River%20%28Civ6%29](River). They can, however, exert it against districts, including City Centers and Encampments.
Religious units.
[List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Religious](Religious units) of different civilizations and different [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religions) always exert a zone of control against each other, while religious units of the same religion never exert a zone of control against one another, regardless of which civilization they belong to or their owners' relationship status.
Movement mechanics.
A unit entering a zone of control cannot move to another tile until after it attacks an adjacent unit or city. The unit can also perform other actions like Plundering {{TradeRoute6}}s, Pillaging, or [Promotion%20%28Civ6%29](promoting) if it has enough {{Moves6}} left. [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Civilian](Civilian units) like [Settler%20%28Civ6%29](Settlers), [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders), and {{GreatPeople6}} will lose all remaining {{Moves6}} upon entering a zone of control and cannot perform any other actions, even if the tile they enter is occupied by a friendly military unit.
Units that enter a zone of control can still attack like normal, as long as they have enough {{Moves6}} left to perform the attack. Units with innate abilities or promotions that allow them to move after attacking still cannot leave the zone of control within the same turn that they enter. Therefore, units with this ability which don't ignore zone of control (such as upgraded [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Recon](recon units) and [Voi%20Chi%E1%BA%BFn%20%28Civ6%29](Voi Chiến)) should pay close attention to where they're going.
A unit that starts its turn within a zone of control can always leave the zone, as long as it hasn't moved or attacked that turn. If it moves into another zone of control, it will be subject to the normal zone of control rules.
There are units that ignore zone of control completely. They are:
All civilian units, [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Support](support units), and {{GreatPeople6}} are affected by zone of control. However, when in formation with a unit that ignores zone of control, the non-military unit also ignores zone of control.