# Zulu (Civ5)

The Zulu people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ5%29](civilization) in "".
Strategy.
The Zulus are best fitted for a [Domination%20victory%20%28Civ5%29](domination victory) that encourages a "Zerg Rush" strategy consisting of melee [Unit%20%28Civ5%29](units), as their [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ5%29](unique ability) reduces maintenance cost for melee units to half. In addition, their military units require 25% less [XP](XP) to earn their next [Promotions%20%28Civ5%29](promotion), thus allowing them to level up and be well-trained more quickly. Combined with the [Nationalism%20%28Civ5%29](Nationalism) and [Total%20War%20%28Civ5%29](Total War) tenets from [Ideology%20%28Civ5%29%23Autocracy](Autocracy), this will allow the Zulus to have exceptionally cheap melee units and well-trained soldiers at the same time. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ5%29](unique unit), the [Impi%20%28Civ5%29](Impi), is one of the strongest midgame units, especially when attacking. Combined with the special promotions (see below) and their bonus versus gunpowder units, the Impi confer the Zulus almost unmatched power in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Medieval) and [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Renaissance Eras), and remain useful all the way until the early [Industrial%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Industrial Era).
The Zulus have access to a [Unique%20building%20%28Civ5%29](unique building) called the [Ikanda%20%28Civ5%29](Ikanda), which not only grants +15 XP to units produced in the city, but also access to unique promotions to all non-mounted pre-gunpowder melee units. Unique promotions are kept even after upgrading the military units to gunpowder units (except for the Impi's Spear Throw). When combined with the battle prowess of the Impi, these unique promotions add a significant amount of early and midgame domination power when compared to other civilizations. However, they will lose out on a bit of late game power once they have access to gunpowder and more advanced units, since the Ikanda's unique promotions apply only to pre-gunpowder units.
The Zulus' [Starting%20bias%20%28Civ5%29](starting bias) has a tendency to avoid [Jungle%20%28Civ5%29](jungles), making it relatively difficult for the Zulus to play defensively in the early game. On the other hand, such a starting bias will allow Zulu cities to grow rapidly and have reasonable {{Production5}}, besides allowing for better mobility for your units. Use this to your advantage!
The best overall strategy for the Zulus is to use the early game for expansion and preparation, accumulating {{Gold5}} and {{Happiness5}} which will allow them to support a large army for later conquest. Then, start attacking on a massive scale in the late [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ5%29](Classical) and early Medieval Eras to march towards a domination victory!