# Zulu (Civ6)

The Zulu people represent a [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) in "". They are led by [Shaka%20%28Civ6%29](Shaka), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are brown and white.
The Zulus' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Isibongo, which causes garrisoned [Unit%20%28Civ6%29](units) to increase the [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) of their [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities) and upgrades units into [Unit%20%28Civ6%29%23Combining%20units](Corps or Armies) (and Fleets and Armadas for [Naval%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](naval units)) when they capture cities (if the necessary [Civic%20%28Civ6%29](civics) have been discovered). Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Impi%20%28Civ6%29](Impi) (which replaces the [Pikeman%20%28Civ6%29](Pikeman)), and their unique {{District6}} is the [Ikanda%20%28Civ6%29](Ikanda) (which replaces the [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment)).
Strategy.
There is strength in numbers when playing as the Zulus. A merciless conqueror, they will turn into the most "snowballing" civilization once the Impi and [Mercenaries%20%28Civ6%29](Mercenaries) are unlocked: the more they fight, the stronger their army will grow.
Isibongo.
All of the Zulus' unique components and abilities are geared toward a fast, aggressive playstyle. They should start producing [Scout%20%28Civ6%29](Scouts) and exploring the surrounding area as soon as the game begins while researching [Pottery%20%28Civ6%29](Pottery), [Archery%20%28Civ6%29](Archery), [Mining%20%28Civ6%29](Mining), and [Bronze%20Working%20%28Civ6%29](Bronze Working) (and [Craftsmanship%20%28Civ6%29](Craftsmanship), which will unlock the invaluable [Agoge%20%28Civ6%29](Agoge)). They should also found at least two new cities after building a [Monument%20%28Civ6%29](Monument) in their {{Capital6}}, at which point they'll most likely be ready to start building Ikanda.
With at least two cities churning out units and {{TradeRoute6}}s building [Roads%20%28Civ6%29](roads) to important locations, the Zulus can set out to conquer their closest neighbor. They have a good incentive not to raze the cities they capture, and instead keep them garrisoned to maintain their Loyalty (especially once they're able to form Corps). They can then fill these cities with Ikanda if they need more units for their army, or with districts that provide additional {{Science6}}, {{Culture6}}, {{Production6}}, {{Amenities6}}, and/or {{TradeRoute6}}s (depending on their current needs). [Governor%20%28Civ6%29](Governors), once appointed, should be assigned to key cities far away from the {{Capital6}} (such as former enemy {{Capital6}}s) to prevent rebellions. Once the Zulus have integrated the captured cities into their empire, it's on to their next target.
Naturally, since the Zulus are going to spend most of the game at war, they should prioritize research of [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](technologies) that unlock more advanced units. After unlocking Impi, however, they should hold off on researching [Metal%20Casting%20%28Civ6%29](Metal Casting) until their unique units have earned some high-tier {{Promotion6}}s.
While the Zulus unlock Fleets and Armadas at the same time most other civilizations do, capturing a city with a naval unit will automatically change it into a combined unit.
Amabutho.
To take advantage of Shaka's leader ability, the Zulus will need to focus on early {{Culture6}} development so they won't have to wait too long for Mercenaries and [Nationalism%20%28Civ6%29](Nationalism). Building a Monument in every city will help with this, as will developing any [Theater%20Square%20%28Civ6%29](Theater Squares) in captured cities (and building one in any city that isn't a dedicated unit training center). After discovering these civics, they can quickly increase the number of Corps and Armies in their military by letting uncombined units capture cities.
Note that if the Zulus decide to beeline Mercenaries and/or Nationalism, they'll be stuck with a primitive form of [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government) in the meantime. While this certainly won't cripple them, it means they won't have many [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy card) options until later on.
Ikanda.
For Shaka, the name of the game is to build the world's largest and most powerful infantry force, and the Ikanda helps him immensely in achieving this goal. With it, the Zulus can train Corps and Armies as soon as they discover the requisite civics (Mercenaries and Nationalism, respectively), and without needing to build [Military%20Academy%20%28Civ6%29](Military Academies). The ability to create Corps in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era) gives Shaka and the Zulus an early military advantage over their neighbors, which becomes even greater when they go to war and gain a new Corps each time they capture a city. 
Additionally, thanks to the Ikanda being a unique {{DistrictIcon6}} District, the Zulus can construct it in half the time, meaning their first Ikanda can be completed much earlier than the full-price [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) of other civilizations. Thanks to this, the Zulus will often be the first civilization in the game to begin earning {{General6}} points and possibly the first to earn a [Great%20General%20%28Civ6%29](Great General). Though the Zulus power spike occurs during the Medieval Era (much later than how early your Ikanda allows you to generate Great Generals), building Ikandas early still helps deny enemy civilizations of Great Generals to defend and helps tremendously toward earning the Great Generals that buff up your Impi later on.
The Ikanda also offers marginal {{Science6}} and {{Gold6}} bonuses for each building in it. This is not too exceptional, but it offers a quicker rush to the Impi as well as finances to support your armies.
Impi.
There's not much to dislike about the Impi: it's faster to train, cheaper to maintain, and gets better [Flanking%20and%20Support%20%28Civ6%29](flanking) and [XP](XP) bonuses than the Pikeman it replaces. Its low {{Production6}} and {{Gold6}} maintenance costs allow the Zulu player to field an army of Impi very quickly and without risking a bankruptcy.
But there's more: the Impi becomes available around the same time as Mercenaries (if civic and tech development have been keeping a similar pace, of course), which allows Shaka to form Corps! Large groups of Impi are very difficult for opponents to repel unless they have a comparable force of melee units (which have a +5 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength bonus against Impi), and if you've been keeping up with your civic development and manage to capture a few cities, you'll have Impi Corps and Armies at your disposal long before anyone else. Start training Impi en masse as soon as you unlock them, then send them forth to show the world the Zulus' might!
While other civilizations may be inclined to train their unique unit's earlier form, this does not apply to the Zulus. The only drawback of the Impi are their class: anti-cavalry. Anti-cavalry units are generally weaker than other military units and often do not hold their own in offensive combat. So while [Alexander%20%28Civ6%29](Alexander) may be training [Warrior%20%28Civ6%29](Warriors) in the Ancient Era to rack up XP and {{Promotion6}}s for his upcoming [Hypaspist%20%28Civ6%29](Hypaspists), the Zulus should not train the underwhelming [Spearman%20%28Civ6%29](Spearman) or try to use them in early combat before they have any of their combat bonuses unlocked. Part of the reason that the Impi are so strong is because they are unlocked around the same time that the Zulus gain an influx of military strength through their brand new Corps. Without those Corps or their strong unique unit, the Zulus have no bonuses besides toward conquest besides their Ikanda, meaning you have no reason to put yourself at a disadvantage by forming an army of subpar units. Because the Zulus will have to hard-build their Impi to make the most of them, a Zulu player should spend their time in the first two eras heavily emphasizing infrastructure and finetuning their cities to prioritize {{Science6}} (for researching [Military%20Tactics%20%28Civ6%29](Military Tactics) and unlocking the Impi), {{Culture6}} (for completing the development of Mercenaries, as mentioned in the section on Amabutho above), and {{Production6}} to ensure they can produce enough Impi fast enough to conquer their neighbors and begin snowballing.
In addition to building {{Production6}}-increasing improvements and {{District6}}s, the Zulus should also pay attention to the various boosts to training anti-cavalry units. These include:
In a high {{Production6}} city with an Ikanda and all of these bonuses, the Zulus will be able to quickly train a highly-capable army to trample their opponents.
The Impi's increased flanking bonus means they benefit more from flanking, but they are not better at providing such bonuses for other units. For example, an Impi and a friendly [Swordsman%20%28Civ6%29](Swordsman) both flank an enemy unit; the Impi will receive a +4 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength flanking bonus from the Swordsman but the Swordsman will still receive only a +2 {{Strength6}} Combat Strength flanking bonus from the Impi.
Victory Types.
A [Victory%20%28Civ6%29%23Domination](Domination Victory) is overwhelmingly the best choice for the Zulus. They'll be at their strongest on land-heavy [Map%20%28Civ6%29](maps), since their naval units don't receive the same benefits their land units do.
Counter Strategy.
The Zulu victory path is about as predictable and narrow as any civ in the game: it runs entirely through midgame land conquest, usually led by their Impi. You can potentially shut this off before it begins with an early invasion, but the Ikanda will provide a defensive benefit to make this a tougher task, so only early-peaking war machines such as the [Aztec%20%28Civ6%29](Aztecs), [Sumerian%20%28Civ6%29](Sumerians), and [Roman%20%28Civ6%29](Romans) can reliably pull this off. Anyone else will need to defend effectively during their power spike, but it has an exploitable weakness: since it happens in the Medieval Era and is driven by an anti-cavalry unit, it can be countered with [Man-At-Arms%20%28Civ6%29](Men-At-Arms), which are unlocked with the easily-beelined [Apprenticeship%20%28Civ6%29](Apprenticeship). Make sure you defend even your smaller cities against a Zulu invasion, though, as even these being captured will make a Corps out of the capturing unit, and Zulu Corps are particularly strong.