# Ya'qub al-Mansur (Civ5)/Civilopedia

Abu Yusuf Ya'qub al-Mansur (1160-1199 AD) was the third emir of the Almohad dynasty, succeeding to the throne when his father was killed in combat with the Christian Alfonso I in Portugal in 1184 AD. Al-Mansur vowed revenge for his father's death and landed in Iberia, capturing and sacking Christian cities before returning to Morocco with 3000 captives. There he spent several years strengthening his kingdom both culturally and diplomatically.
During his absence from Iberia, the Castilian king Alfonso VIII again sought to "reconquer" Moorish territories in Iberia. Gathering the largest army of the period, reportedly 300,000, the Christians captured a number of Almohad cities, including Silves and Beja. Returning with a vengeance, al-Mansur decisively defeated Alfonso at the Battle of Alarcos in July 1195, inflicting 150,000 casualties on the Christians; after the victory al-Mansur was given the title "Made Victorious by God" by his people.
In addition to his military successes, al-Mansur reigned with distinction. Under his rule, trade, art and the sciences flourished. He oversaw the construction of the great mosques of Koutouba and el-Mansouria in Marrakesh and the Udayas kasbah in Rabat. Al-Mansur was patron to the philosopher Ibn Rushd (known as Averroes among Christians) and other artists and scholars. He funded construction of what would have been the world's largest mosque in Rabat, but work was halted upon al-Mansur's premature death.