# Joaquim Marques Lisboa (Civ6)/Civilopedia

The naval career of Joaquim Marques Lisboa spanned seventy years as a national hero, first admiral and patron of the Navy of Brazil. His birthday – 13 December – is remembered there as “Sailor Day.” And he helped suppress a lot of revolts by disgruntled natives, peasants and ex-slaves: the Cabanagem, the Sabinada, the Farroupilha, the Balaiada and the Praieira.
Joaquim was born in the city of Rio Grande, one of the most important ports in Brazil, in 1807 AD; at the age of 13, he enlisted in the navy. He was assigned to the frigate Niterói and took part in several naval actions along the coast of Bahia both before and during the brief war of independence in 1822. At 20, he was given command of a decrepit schooner and engaged, but was captured by the Argentine warship 'Patagonia.' Repatriated home, in 1840 Lisboa was promoted to captain-de-fragata and in 1847 to full captain.
For the next 15 years, now Marquis de Tamandare, Joaquim Lisboa would sail about suppressing revolts, oversee the construction of new ships in Europe, and be promoted – frequently. By 1864 he took over as commander-in-chief of Brazilian naval operations … just in time to lead his forces in the Paraguayan War (1864-1870). During the conflict he saw action on the Parana and Paraguay rivers. But in 1866, for health and political reasons, Lisboa requested removal from office.
A staunch royalist, Joaquim had asked Pedro II for permission to take command of the Imperial Navy and arrest the dissenters that issued the proclamation of the Republic of Brazil in 1889. Pedro demurred, preferring exile to civil war. At the age of 82, the fiery old warhorse remained steadfastly beside the imperial family until the Alagoas sailed for Europe. In March 1897, Lisboa died.