# Johann Sebastian Bach (Civ6)/Civilopedia

Born in March 1685 AD in Thuringia, J.S. Bach had a prestigious musical lineage in a musical family stretching back several generations. His father, Johann Ambrosius Bach, was the town musician for Eisenach and taught his son the violin before the boy turned six years old. The young Bach entered Lutheran school at the age of seven, where he was immersed in religious studies. J.S. lived with his older brother, Johann Christoph, the church organist, who taught him that instrument.
In 1703 Johann Sebastian landed his first musical gig, playing violin and organ and other instruments as needed at the court of Duke Johann Ernst in Weimar. A skilled and admired performer, J.S. took on a number of positions in churches and courts over the next several years, during which he began composing more challenging original pieces. In 1717, Bach accepted a position in the court of Prince Leopold of Anhalt-Cothen, While there, in tribute to the Duke of Brandenburg, Bach composed a series of musical works – the “Brandenburg Concertos,” considered by many the greatest musical expression of civilization.
Bach, never settled, moved on to Leipzig, where he became the organist and teacher at St. Thomas Church. Over the next few years, he created a number of religious compositions, earning him ever more fame. But by 1740, his eyesight was failing. Despite that, he continued to perform and compose, completing his last known work in 1749. J.S. suffered a stroke later that year and died in July 1750.