# Sassanid (Civ3)/Civilopedia

The Sassanids ruled most of the Persian Empire for more than four centuries, from AD 224-642. As with the modern inhabitants of the area, they consolidated their power by stressing traditional values, including religion, over "foreign" concepts introduced by conquerers. In this case, the religion was Zoroastrianism and the foreigners were the Greeks and Byzantines. The Sassanids were great builders, and constructed vast temples and palaces throughout the area. They also funded art, but only of "approved" subjects, most notably religious statuary.
Sassanid power over the area was consolidated by Shapur I (AD 241-272), who defeated the Romans and captured Emperor Valerian. According to legend, Shapur used Valerian as a stepstool to mount his horse, and when he tired of that, had him skinned and kept the "hide" on display as a token of Sassanid power. Internally, a caste system was developed, with a ruling class, a priestly class, and a bureaucratic class all considered superior to the common laborer. Since many local rulers assumed the title of King (shardar), the Sassanid rulers were the first to assume the title of shahanshah (King of Kings), a title which lasted for 17 centuries.
The Sassanid Empire reached its height under Chosroes I (AD 531-579), who had many books from Indian scholars translated into the local language. He also built great works and founded new towns. Tensions between the Sassanids and the Byzantines led to a string of battles which eventually exhausted both Empires, and made the Sassanids vulnerable to the Arab invasion in the seventh century.