# Polish (Civ6)/Jadwiga's Legacy

The Polish people represent the Polish noble families, a playable [Civilizations%20%28Civ6%29](civilization) from the [Jadwiga%27s%20Legacy%20%28Civ6%29](Jadwiga's Legacy) [List%20of%20scenarios%20in%20Civ6](scenario) in "[Civilization%20VI](Civilization VI)". They are led by [Stanis%C5%82aw%20Potocki%20%28Civ6%29](Stanisław Potocki), under whom their default [Jersey%20System%20%28Civ6%29](colors) are blue and white.
The Poles' [Unique%20ability%20%28Civ6%29](civilization ability) is Golden Liberty, which allows them to claim all surrounding [Tile%20%28Civ6%29](tiles) when they build an [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) or a [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Fort) in their territory and changes one of their [Government%20%28Civ6%29](government's) Military [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](policy) slots into a Wildcard slot. Their [Unique%20unit%20%28Civ6%29](unique unit) is the [Winged%20Hussar%20%28Civ6%29](Winged Hussar), and their unique [Buildings%20%28Civ6%29](building) is the [Sukiennice%20%28Civ6%29](Sukiennice) (which replaces the [Market%20%28Civ6%29](Market)).
Strategy.
Out of the three playable civilizations in Jadwiga's Legacy, Polish Nobility led by Stanisław Potocki might just be the best choice.
First off, the Polish Nobility start in the most defensible part of the [Map%20%28Civ6%29](map), with the only [Barbarian%20%28Civ6%29](barbarians) nearby at the start being the Tectonic Knights who will likely be distracted by [Gda%C5%84sk%20%28Civ6%29](Gdańsk) and the [Lithuanian%20%28Civ6%29](Lithuanian Nobility), limiting the units that will target you. 
Later on the [Ottoman](Ottomans) will spawn, but thanks to the Carpathian [Mountains%20%28Civ6%29](Mountains) protecting your [Territory%20%28Civ6%29](territory) and the obvious choke point between the Ottomans and [Vienna%20%28Civ6%29](Vienna), It should be very easy for you to assemble a strong army of [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowmen), [Knight%20%28Civ6%29](Knights), and [Winged%20Hussar%20%28Civ6%29](Winged Hussars) to defeat them and fortify against any future resurgences. 
After that the only threat will be the [Swedish](Swedes). The Swedes will be much stronger and larger than the other enemies you've had to deal with previously, but by the time they appear your army should be large enough to take them on, and making any more units should be easily done fast in your largest [City%20%28Civ6%29](cities).
These Barbarians will most likely be the only ones you'll have to deal with, since to your west you'll be defended by the border of the map, and to the east will be completely empty land between you and the other players, making it ripe for expansion.
Another bonus of your start is the proximity with the Vienna and [Prague%20%28Civ6%29](Prague) [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). Unlike other leaders, the area between you and the city-states will be small, allowing [Trade%20Route%20%28Civ6%29](trade) to safely commence without threat of being plundered by Barbarians or losing out on profits from domestic trade after constructing [Sukiennice%20%28Civ6%29](Sukiennices). 
In Jadwiga's Legacy, you automatically lose the scenario if Vienna is destroyed, and unlike other civs sending a force to defend the city will be of no trouble for you.
The only disadvantage is that the Polish Nobility, unlike the Lithuanian or [Volhynian%20%28Civ6%29](Volhynian) Nobilities, does not have a founded [Religion%20%28Civ6%29](religion) and thus is not entitled to the benefits from cities following your religion.
Rotmistrz.
Stanisław Potocki's unique ability "Rotmistrz" is also better then the other leaders' abilities, since [List%20of%20units%20in%20Civ6/By%20class%23Heavy%20cavalry](heavy cavalry) are the best units against the enemies you'll be facing, and the ability to effectively double the amount of Winged Hussars you train means you can save a lot of [Production%20%28Civ6%29](production) for infrastructure.