# Tank (CTP2)/Variants

In the default game there are both [Tank%20%28CTP2%29](ordinary) and futuristic tanks (the [Fusion%20Tank%20%28CTP2%29](Fusion Tank) and the [Leviathan%20%28CTP2%29](Leviathan)). There are also two Modpacks available for "[Call%20to%20Power%20II](Call to Power II)" based on two theaters of [World%20War%20II](World War II) called Western Front and Global. The only difference is in Western Front, French tanks exist, and in Global there are a few for the Russians, Americans, and British.
WW2 Western Front Campaign.
In this scenario it is 1940 and the Germans are set to Blitzkrieg France. There are 2 scenarios included in this modpack: one called Defence of France if you pick France, the other called Blitzkrieg if you pick the Germans.
Tank strategy.
Tanks can be outfitted to carry up to 3 units in the rules files. If you have a tank that's carrying one troop and you have a 12 stack of tanks each carrying a personnel (small land) units, you could create a stack of at least 24 units on one tile of land. As a rule of thumb, just because they are transporting troops does not guarantee more fire power. If a tank is blown up while transporting units you lose that tank and the troops inside, even if they are carrying a commanding general unit. Your best bet is to have a stack of 12 tanks not laden with troops and then have the stack of 12 small land walking beside and have them attack second. Remember at any point when you attack and think you made a mistake you can retreat and re-group for a large frontal assault and defeat any enemy. One interesting thing to note is tanks in the 1940s are something of a novelty. They are a new technology and not many nations will build them due to their expensive construction costs; for instance a brand new S-35 can cost up to 20,000 gold if Rush bought in a town without a factory, 12,500 if rushed in a Town with a Factory.