# Confucianism (Civ5)/Civilopedia

Confucianism is a religion based on the teachings of the Chinese philosopher Confucius, who was born in 551 BC. Originally introduced as an ethical and social philosophy, Confucianism has grown to a following of several million in the present-day, mainly concentrated in the regions of East Asia. During his life, Confucius hoped to instill a strong belief in personal morality, social responsibility, and family loyalty, as each person served their role in society. As a humanist philosophy, Confucianism focuses on the ability of every human being to learn, grow, and improve through ethical behavior and consideration for others.
Following Confucius' death in approximately 479 BC, his teachings saw widespread growth for nearly 200 years until attempts at suppressing the philosophy were undertaken in earnest by the Qin Dynasty. The Qin rulers believed that Confucianism was a direct threat to their authority, and, as a result, they had most Confucian books burned, including many of Confucius' original writings. Temples were also destroyed across the country, leaving little sanctuary for the followers of Confucianism. Despite these attempts to wipe out the Confucian belief system, a hidden store of Confucian manuscripts was discovered in the walls of a scholar's home, and the religion found new life after the fall of the Qin in 206 BC.
In the present-day, the works of Confucianism are studied by scholars throughout the world. Although they approach Confucianism as more of a philosophy than as a traditional religion, the distinction between these two interpretations is hazy.