# Hinduism (Civ6)/Civilopedia

Widely considered the oldest religion still in practice today, Hinduism – or the Sanatana Dharma (the “eternal law”) – is based upon a series of ancient manuscripts known as the Vedas. This collection of Sanskrit texts, encompassing four main scriptural works, is thought to have been written over 3500 years ago. With one billion (and ever growing) followers throughout the world today (most being concentrated in India and Southeast Asia), Hinduism is a fusion of various cultures and traditions, with no single founder nor creed, and as much a way of life as a religion. For some, Buddhism and Jainism are themselves a part of a wider, diverse Hindu practice. While India is the heart of Hinduism, the religion spread across Southeast Asia as well, and Bali, in Indonesia, retains a distinctive local Hindu practice, as do diaspora communities across the world.
Hinduism has become synonymous with polytheism many places (and, indeed, shares a relationship with European polytheistic traditions). Most traditions emphasize three vital forces in the world: creation (under the god Brahma), sustenance (under the god Vishnu), and destruction (under the god Shiva). Other traditions posit a single, unifying force that governs all aspects of our existence. In Hinduism as well as Buddhism, dharma, or the “Ultimate Reality,” is the universal power or law by which all things that exist are bound, and the notion of karma: a register of deeds, both good and bad, that have a cause-and-effect relationship on how our lives progress.
"Hinduism" as a term became widespread during the British colonial era to refer to those who were neither Christian nor Muslim. Over time, Jain and Buddhist devotees carved out their own identities, but Hinduism retained this sense of diversity and variety. Roughly 15% of the world's population is Hindu.