# Franz Liszt (Civ6)/Civilopedia

A child prodigy, at least in music, by the age of nine Franz Liszt was performing in concert halls in his native Austro-Hungary. By the time of his death at the age of 74 of pneumonia, Franz Liszt had written more than 700 compositions, and was said to be the most technically proficient pianist of any age.
Secretary to Prince Esterhazy, Liszt’s father requested and was granted leave to take his son to Vienna, where no less a composer than Antonio Salieri became a proponent of the boy’s musical genius. For several months there, the young Liszt performed private concerts for the wealthy and the nobility. Perhaps his most uncanny demonstration was his ability to improvise a musical composition on the spot from any melody suggested by an audience member. At the age of 12, Franz was taken to the Paris Conservatory in an unsuccessful attempt to get him admitted.
In 1826 AD the 15-year-old Liszt’s father passed away, and the family fell on hard times, forced to share a tiny Parisian apartment. Liszt, disheartened, seemingly lost interest in music for a time, instead reading profusely, notably on the subjects of art and religion. But in 1833, having recovered from his depression and composing again, Franz Liszt debuted his first new work, and soon enough others. He also returned to public performances, becoming celebrated across Europe for his skill – with his reputation bolstered by the donation of much of the proceeds (concert tickets weren’t any cheaper than they are now) to charities and humanitarian causes.
Liszt continued to travel, perform and compose right until his death in Bayern in 1886.