# Jin (Civ5)/Civilopedia

The Jin Dynasty (also known as the Jurchen Dynasty) was established in 1115 AD in the area of northeast China historically known as Manchuria. The Jurchens, a tribal people descended from the earlier Mohe tribes inhabiting this region, were primarily hunter-gatherers living as vassals under the Liao Dynasty. Unified under the guidance of Wanyan Aguda, leader of the Wanyan tribe, the Jurchens would quickly conquer the Liao and much of northern China. Wanyan would take the name "Jin" for his new Dynasty, meaning "Golden".
Much like the Mongols, the Jurchen were known for their fearsome cavalry, whose talents are said to have developed as a result of the strong hunting traditions within the tribes. Having crushed the Liao with the assistance of the Song Dynasty, the Jurchens would invade Song territory, leading to nearly 20 years of continuous war. In 1141, the Treaty of Shaoxing would lead to peace between the two dynasties, creating a border at the Huai River.
At its peak, the Jin Dynasty encompassed more than 30 million people and the entirety of Northern China. However, the rise of Genghis Khan brought new leadership to the neighboring Mongol tribes, and soon the Mongols would begin their legendary conquest of Asia, including the Jin. By 1227, the year of Genghis Khan's death, the Mongols had decimated much of the Jin's forces. However, the valiant warriors of the Jin would manage to resist Mongol domination for another 7 years after Genghis' death, finally succumbing to the Mongol forces in 1234.