# Suryavarman II (Civ4)/Civilopedia

Suryavarman II was king of the Khmer Empire from 1113 to 1150 AD. Encompassing much of what is today modern Thailand, Laos and Cambodia, the Khmer Empire had been wracked with internal feuding and chaos for fifty years before Suryavarman's reign. Born in the last quarter of the eleventh century, Suryavarman would grow to become a skilled general, statesman and patron of the arts.
After overcoming his rivals for the throne, Suryavarman began a series of successful invasions into neighboring states and occupied what is now Thailand and Myanmar, extending the borders of the previously stagnant Khmer kingdom. Through his efforts, the empire re-established contact with China to the north and formed a powerful alliance with Champa to the east. Together with his Champa allies, Suryavarman launched an attack against the neighboring state of Dai Viet. Yet when their continued campaigns against Dai Viet ended in loss, the Champa King broke with the Khmer empire. Not one to lightly accept treachery, Suryavarman invaded neighboring Champa, but the brutal campaign ultimately cost the Khmer leader his life.
Yet Suryavarman's impressive legacy would reach far beyond his territorial gains. The massive temple to Vishnu which was constructed under his reign - Angkor Wat - remains the largest religious structure in the world. Considered the epitome of Khmer architecture, Angkor Wat acted as the heart of Suryavarman's expanded kingdom. And while stunning as a work of art, Angkor Wat also served as a masterful propaganda piece for the lord of the Khmer. Numerous bas-reliefs of the ruler cover the temple. Many of the sculptures depict Suryavarman among his court or in combat, but above all, they portray him as a calm and talented ruler. Suryavarman's wondrous temple complex remains one of the a central symbols of Khmer heritage and today appears on the modern Cambodian flag.