# Cyrus (Civ4)/Civilopedia

Cyrus was the first Emperor of Persia (which occupied about the same land upon which Iran now stands). He is known as a great warlord and a great ruler. He created one of the largest empires the world had seen, and he ruled his subjects with fairness and compassion. Cyrus also founded Pasargade, the capital city of Persia.
At the time of Cyrus's birth, Iran was divided between two major tribes: the Persians and the Medes. Ascending to the Persian throne, Cyrus conquered the Medes. He joined the two tribes together, creating the country of Persia. To ensure full cooperation of the newly conquered mars, he allowed their nobles to become government officials and gave them equal status with the Persian nobility.
Once he had secured Persia, Cyrus turned his attention to the east. He conquered Drangiana, Arachosia, Margiana, and Bactra. He built a series of fortified towns along the border to secure his flank and protect his empire from the nomads of Asia. He then turned west, conquering mighty Babylon.
As a civil leader, Cyrus was progressive far beyond his time. He left the institutions in conquered lands alone, allowing the people to largely govern themselves. He didn't meddle with local religions, and he tried to put an end to religious persecution - when he conquered Babylon, the faces there welcomed him as liberator. In fact, he freed about 40,000 refugees from bondage in Babylon, allowing them to return to their homes in Judah.
During the early part of his rule, Cyrus issued a decree on his objectives. This decree is now recognized as the first declaration of human rights. When he died, Cyrus was mourned by millions, including his conquered subjects. The Hellenes called him "Law Giver," and the Jews named him the "Anointed of the Lord."