# Chinese (Civ6)/In-depth strategy guide by ThinkingNut

The following guide is being constantly updated by . has been playing almost exclusively as [Chinese%20%28Civ6%29](China) in Civ 6 since the release of the game in late 2016. He plays and wins on Deity difficulty in Single Player and Multiplayer. The guide has been updated for [Rise%20and%20Fall](Rise and Fall) , [Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm) and [New%20Frontier%20Pass%20%28Civ6%29](New Frontier Pass). It has been written with the objective of helping you win at Deity difficulty level.
Introduction.
China is a versatile, complex and solid civilization that can, with the right setup and Wonders, effectively go for any of the Victory types and gain an advantage no matter the map conditions.
[Qin%20Shi%20Huang%20%28Civ6%29](Qin)'s First Emperor leader ability boasts the most productive Builders in the game (with their charge count potentially going up as high as 8 per Builder) and the unique ability to rush [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) and [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical) Wonders with Builder charges.
[Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Kublai)'s [Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Gerege) ability allows for an enhanced and flexible early game with rapid progress through the Technology and Civic trees as he gains s and s from his s. 
Dynastic Cycle provides an excellent snowballing ability in terms of researching [Technologies%20%28Civ6%29](Technologies) and [Civics%20%28Civ6%29](Civics) for the entire game. Whenever you complete a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder), you also get a free and from that Wonder's [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era).
[Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) provide cheap and powerful defense in the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval) and [Renaissance%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Renaissance) Era, making China a strong defensive civilisation in the mid game as long as her enemies are on par in the tech tree or behind.
The [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) tile improvement functions as a standard [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Fort) in terms of Combat Strength and is unlocked three Eras earlier with [Masonry%20%28Civ6%29](Masonry). It provides Chinese units with a very effective defensive option for the entire game. Its potential [Gold%20%28Civ6%29](Gold) and, later on, [Culture%20%28Civ6%29](Culture) and [Tourism%20%28Civ6%29](Tourism) yield is an excellent source of income.
Learning how to play optimally as China will take patience and experimentation as she has a relatively steep learning curve. The key is understanding which [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) and [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical) Wonders are appropriate under which geopolitical circumstances. Once you have a solid grasp on this aspect of her kit, the other bonuses are relatively straightforward and simple to use. If you take the time to learn how to play China competently, you will have a competitively viable civilization to take into Deity and Multiplayer games.
Good luck!
Victory Types.
This section is intended to showcase the versatility of China's kit for all Victory types. Note that these strategies are not set in stone, and are general guidelines that are meant to be adapted to the circumstances of the game.
"Qin Shi Huang:"
"Kublai Khan:"
Beginner's Mini-Guide To Qin's China.
If you are fairly experienced at playing Civilization 6 but picking up China for the first time, here are my seven beginner's tips to make your learning curve easier. The idea is to maximize the productivity of your Builders, get as much value as possible from and , and protect your empire using [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) and the [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) tile improvement. Note that these are general tips that work fairly well in all situations. When you get more experienced, learning to adapt these suggestions to your immediate environment will be key so that you leverage the maximum advantage as a China player. 
For more advanced, in-depth notes and strategies, please see below:
Beginner's Mini-Guide To Kublai's China.
Here are my four beginner's tips to make your learning curve easier. The idea is to maximise your strong early game advantage through strategically using your extra [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Economic Policy Slot) and powering up your . What has already been written above about Dynastic Cyle, Crouching Tigers and the Great Wall improvement also applies.
Qin Shi Huang's The First Emperor.
Overview Of Ability.
China's [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) get an extra charge, giving them a total of 4 instead of 3 charges. Combine this later on with the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids), [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom) and [Public%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Public Works), and you can potentially have [Builder%20%28Civ6%29](Builders) with 7 charges (or 8 in "Rise and Fall "with governor [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang)'s [Guildmaster%20%28Civ6%29](Guildmaster) title) - the highest number of charges per Builder in the game! They can also spend charges to rush the construction of Ancient and Classical Wonders.
Breakdown Of Ancient And Classical Wonders.
Notes:
Core = [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids). Grab it every game if possible. This is your top priority, consistently game-changing wonder that complements Qin's kit excellently.
Reliably good = Get these Wonders if you can manage to juggle your [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) between these and general empire expansion. They will heavily reward you if you do.
Situational = Situationally great. Don't bother otherwise.
Avoid = Just don't bother.
1 Note that the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids) add one extra charge for all existing Builders as well. Therefore, if you have a choice when your Pyramids are near completion, shuffle your Builders so that you have as many of them left as possible.
2 Available only if you bought the [Persia%20and%20Macedon%20Civilization%20%26amp%3B%20Scenario%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Persia and Macedon Civilization &amp; Scenario Pack).
3 If you want to collect [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge), if you are playing at the Emperor [Difficulty%20level%20%28Civ6%29](difficulty level) or above in single-player, try to shuffle your maps to get a good suitable position - near some [Stone%20%28Civ6%29](Stone), close to a [Natural%20wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Wonder) and some [City-state%20%28Civ6%29](city-states). The boost to [Astrology%20%28Civ6%29](Astrology) from a Natural Wonder allows you to research the other techs you need to work tiles and produce military, and city-states alleviate the need for regular . If you do sacrifice early and expansion, you will lose the later Wonders.
4 Available only if you bought the [Nubia%20Civilization%20%26amp%3B%20Scenario%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Nubia Civilization &amp; Scenario Pack).
Unlocking Canals At Masonry.
With the Gathering Storm Expansion Pack, The First Emperor leader ability has now the extra bonus of unlocking [Canal%20%28Civ6%29](Canals) after researching the [Masonry%20%28Civ6%29](Masonry) technology.
This is a very situational and niche ability. You have to play on maps where land masses are narrow or snaky enough to isolate bodies of waters from each other for canals to be relevant. The only arguments for building early [Canals](Canals) are for more efficient and [Canals](Canals) being a source of district adjacency bonuses. Otherwise, your early game [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) would be better spent elsewhere.
Kublai Khan's Gerege.
[Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Kublai)'s China gets a free extra Economic policy slot in all governments. He also gains a random and upon establishing a in another major civilization's city for the first time.
The extra Economic policy slot is most useful in the early to middle game, especially as you can run [God%20King%20%28Civ6%29](God King) and [Urban%20Planning%20%28Civ6%29](Urban Planning) at the same time. It is immediately powerful and provides additional flexibility to Kublai's play-style. It can also be used to slot in yield-enhancing cards like [Town%20Charters%20%28Civ6%29](Town Charters) and [Free%20Market%20%28Civ6%29](Free Market). Most importantly, it can be used to slot in policies that enhance Kublai's , such as [Caravansaries%20%28Civ6%29](Caravansaries), [Trade%20Confederation%20%28Civ6%29](Trade Confederation), [Triangular%20Trade%20%28Civ6%29](Triangular Trade), [Market%20Economy%20%28Civ6%29](Market Economy), [Ecommerce%20%28Civ6%29](Ecommerce), [Wisselbanken%20%28Civ6%29](Wisselbanken), [Raj%20%28Civ6%29](Raj), [Arsenal%20of%20Democracy%20%28Civ6%29](Arsenal of Democracy), [Collectivization%20%28Civ6%29](Collectivisation), [Online%20Communities%20%28Civ6%29](Online Communities), [Reform%20the%20Coinage%20%28Civ6%29](Reform the Coinage), and/or [Popular%20Front%20%28Civ6%29](Popular Front) (the last two policies being [New%20Frontier%20Pass%20%28Civ6%29](New Frontier Pass): [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) only).
It is recommended that you send your s to other major civilisations immediately to get your randoms and s as soon as possible. Despite the randomness, the early advantage you gain is worth much more than a late game advantage. You also have a good chance of boosting something that you might otherwise find difficult to boost - e.g. boosting [Printing%20%28Civ6%29](Printing) even if you have not prioritised [University%20%28Civ6%29](Universities).
By sending s to other civilisations and/or City-States, you also make your target civilisation more friendly towards you - this can be helpful for steering diplomatic relations to your advantage. You can thus be in a better position to avoid early game wars and/or have your Allies help defend you. [Alliance%20%28Civ6%29](Alliances) are also helpful to further power up your s.
It is unfortunate that you are limited by the number of major civilisations in your game. This makes this latter half of Kublai's ability more impactful on maps with more players.
Overall, Gerege is a powerful and flexible ability that pairs well with existing game mechanics. It is good without being brokenly overpowered.
Dynastic Cycle.
10% extra s and s are great all game, especially in the late game when both technologies and civics are far more expensive. The enhanced boosts allow for China to have great snowballing potential all game. But it would be counterproductive to wait too long for s and s because of the 10% extra. For the most essential tech or civic, plow through without delay.
Whenever you complete a [Wonder%20%28Civ6%29](Wonder), Dynastic Cycle also grants you a free and from that Wonder's [Era%20%28Civ6%29](era). This would encourage you to build as many Wonders as possible as soon as you unlock them to maximize the number of boosts you get. The ability is especially handy if some of the boosts have requirements that you would otherwise find hard to meet.
This bonus proves its own worth if you are considering a [Domination%20Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Domination Victory) strategy. Every time you conquer a city, you potentially gain an or if the enemy civilisation is ahead of you in [Technology%20%28Civ6%29](Technology) or [Civics%20%28Civ6%29](Civics). With Dynastic Cycle, this becomes even more valuable.
Last but not least, stealing technology boosts with [Spy%20%28Civ6%29](spies) in the mid to late game is even more valuable as China because the get an extra 10% of the technology cost. This strategy gets better the higher you go in difficulty (in single player) because on Immortal and Deity, the AI will almost always be ahead of you in technology until possibly the mid-to-late game.
Great Wall.
Defensive Bonus.
The Great Wall tile improvement operates as a [Fort%20%28Civ6%29](Fort) in terms of granting Combat Strength: +4 Defense Strength and an instant 2 turns of fortification - a total of +10 Combat Strength. Its superior value comes from the fact that it is unlocked three eras earlier at [Masonry%20%28Civ6%29](Masonry). It is much more accessible since it is constructed with Builder charges. This gives early game units a much bigger boost in defensive Combat Strength relative to their intrinsically lower Combat Strength. E.g. Archers get a 66% boost in defensive melee Combat Strength because their intrinsic melee Combat Strength is 15. It is an excellent source of early defence against barbarians and any aggressive neighbour. 
In [Gathering%20Storm](Gathering Storm), the [Garrison%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison) promotion applies to Great Wall tile improvements, so it makes sense for primarily defending [Ranged%20Units%20%28Civ6%29](Ranged Units) to grab this as their first promotion. This boosts the already formidable defensive power of the [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers).
The only requirement it has is that the Great Wall needs to be built along the borders of your empire.
One important note is that although the Great Wall is good for providing defensive terrain, it is a complement to walled-up [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) and not a substitute. 
Tip to win skirmishes using the Great Wall: You can use the defensive capabilities of the Great Wall to help turn the tide of a war in your favour. Bunker on the outskirts of your empire with the wall tiles forming a defensive perimeter dividing you and your intended target. Station Crouching Tigers with (preferably) the [Garrison%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison) promotion on the wall. It would be ideal if you can also have [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor) with the [Garrison%20Commander%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison Commander) promotion stationed in that city. Declare war, and when your target tries to force an engagement with incoming troops, blast away with your bunkered Crouching Tigers. Feel free to mix in other troops as necessary in case the Crouching Tigers are in danger of being overwhelmed. As long as you and your foe are technologically on par with each other, your foe's troops would be completely annihilated in their initial assault, which opens up the possibility of you counterattacking with your own troops. The Crouching Tiger and Great Wall thus form a situationally powerful counterattack combination that relies on exploiting enemy hubris. 
Additional statistics.
The Great Wall grants an intrinsic +2 by itself, with another +2 when adjacent to another tile of Great Wall. Once the [Castles%20%28Civ6%29](Castles) technology has been researched, an additional +2 is granted per adjacent Great Wall tile. This brings the economic benefits of a Great Wall title up to an impressive +6 and +4 per strip when adjacent to two other Great wall tiles. When [Flight%20%28Civ6%29](Flight) has been researched, is also accumulated. This is an excellent source of and in the early to mid game, and can push you towards a [Cultural%20Victory](Culture Victory) in the late game.
A combination that is especially powerful is building Great Wall segments on desert tiles that have been boosted by [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra), tiles which otherwise cannot be improved. This boosts their value to +2 , +1 , +8 and +4 per tile. I would caution against building Great Wall segments on desert hill tiles as the from mines will be a better long-term choice. 
If you are lacking 4 Era Score towards a [Golden%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age) or [Normal%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Normal Age), laying one Great Wall tile down grants +4 Era Score. 
Final note: Great Wall tiles can be pillaged but never removed by [Disasters%20%28Civ6%29](disasters). This saves you Builder charges. An unorthodox way to use this mechanic is to surround [Natural%20Wonders%20%28Civ6%29](Natural Wonders) that give bonus yields to adjacent tiles and active [Volcanoes%20%28Civ6%29](volcanoes) with Great Wall segments. This guarantees powerful and (in the case of volcanoes) scaling yields for the rest of the game without you having to spend any more Builder charges on the area. 
Crouching Tiger.
The [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tiger) is a [Unique%20unit](unique) [Ranged%20Units%20%28Civ6%29](ranged unit) that costs 140 , 40 less than the 180 [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman) and has +50 Ranged Combat Strength, relative to the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman's) +40 Ranged Combat Strength. Like the Crossbowman, it does not cost resources to train. However, it has one less Range when compared to the [Crossbowman%20%28Civ6%29](Crossbowman). 
The reduction in Range means [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) will be exposed to enemy melee units unless placed in defensive structures, which significantly inhibits their use. [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) are therefore best employed in defensive wars when placed in walled-up [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampments) or [City%20Center%20%28Civ6%29](City Centers). If neither is available or convenient, ad hoc [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) placement can also help the survivability of [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers).
If you're planning to mass-produce [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers), it is more efficient to adopt the [Feudal%20Contract%20%28Civ6%29](Feudal Contract) military policy card as the [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) are classified as Medieval ranged units. The +50% that is granted with this policy card has synergy with the [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tiger)'s already lowered base costs. 
Final note: When you build your first [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tiger), all your city defences and encampments (providing that you've built [Ancient%20Walls%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient Walls)) will gain its +50 Ranged Combat Strength. This, in conjunction with the [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) tile improvement and the [Bastions%20%28Civ6%29](Bastions) policy card, gives China the potential to be a formidable defensive civilisation in the game during the [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era). It is a good idea, therefore, to build at least one [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tiger) as soon as you unlock it, even if you are at peace, so that you upgrade your cities' and encampments' ranged attacks.
When defending, it is advisable to grab [Garrison%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison) as your first promotion for even more effective defence.
Recommendations For Religious Beliefs.
"For Qin:" 
KEY: Founding a religion as Qin is very much worth it because his plentiful Wonders accumulate a lot of through the Divine Inspiration Follower Belief. This can allow him to minimise the number of [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) in his empire and instead rely on his Wonders to be the chief generators of . The can then be used to buy troops and/or Great People. It can also be used in conjunction with the [Golden%20Age](Golden Age) version of the [Monumentality%20%28Civ6%29](Monumentality) Dedication to buy civilian units (especially Builders). 
With Qin, the go-to pantheon should always be [Monument%20to%20the%20Gods%20%28Civ6%29](Monument to the Gods). That way, you build your Ancient and Classical Wonders faster.
As Qin, if you have [Stone%20%28Civ6%29](stone) nearby, rushing-building [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge) becomes a high priority.
______
There are two versions of my recommended religious setup. The first version is tailored for an optimal path to a [Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Religious Victory). The second version is a non-Religious Victory version tailored for a high , defensive religion that you do not plan to spread outside of your territory.
1. Religious Victory version:
In the following order: Divine Inspiration (Follower), Pilgrimage (Founder), Holy Order / Crusade (Enhancer), [Mosque%20%28Civ6%29](Mosque) (Worship). 
Divine Inspiration grants you +4 from each of your Wonders, thus making this belief ideal for China since her kit encourages her to build as many Wonders as possible. The rest of the beliefs help you efficiently and effectively spread your Religion.
One possible variation of this setup is swapping out Holy Order for Crusade. This will be helpful if you plan on going to war with your neighbours. 
2. Non-Religious Victory version:
In the following order: Divine Inspiration (Follower) (please see above notes), Sacred Places (Founder), [Meeting%20House%20%28Civ6%29](Meeting House) (Worship), and Defender of the Faith (Enhancer).
Sacred Places is a great Founder belief because most of your cities will have Wonders. That way, you will more than likely be able to meet its requirement to net the +2 , , , and .
[Meeting%20House%20%28Civ6%29](Meeting House) is a great Worship building since the +2 will give you a minor boost towards building more Wonders. 
And last but not least, Defender of the Faith works well with not just defending your religion, but with [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) and the [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) tile.
"For Kublai:"
With Kublai, the appropriate pantheon will be situational to the map, although [City%20Patron%20Goddess%20%28Civ6%29](City Patron Goddess) is always a good choice to get those [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) up and running sooner.
As Kublai, your extra [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Economic Policy Slot) will free up that [Policy%20card%20%28Civ6%29](Wildcard Policy Slot) in your Tier 1 Government for slotting in [Revelation%20%28Civ6%29](Revelation) or [Exodus%20of%20the%20Evangelists%20%28Civ6%29](Exodus of the Evangelists) (if you have the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) game mode enabled). This gives you a slight edge in founding a Religion.
Regarding beliefs: As Kublai's kit relies on s, one possible situational setup for a Religious Victory is Religious Community (Founder), Pilgrimage (Founder), Holy Order / Crusade (Enhancer), [Mosque%20%28Civ6%29](Mosque) (Worship). 
Religious Community is situational because its strength relies on your neighbours to build [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Sites) and their respective buildings. Therefore, if you start near a civilisation with religious tendencies (e.g. India, Mali or Ethiopia), this will be a powerful upgrade to your plentiful s. The belief is also good in the sense that you do not have to build many Holy Sites to maximise its potential (unlike, say, Choral Music). If you do not foresee your neighbours building any Holy Sites any time soon, go with something else as your Founder belief. The Pilgrimage + Holy Order + Mosque combination is the standard build for a Religious Victory.
It should be noted that there is nothing in Kublai's kit that rewards founding a Religion but not going for a Religious Victory. Therefore, if you are not planning for a Religious Victory, feel free to pass on contending for a Religion.
Policy Cards.
This section will recommend what policy cards work best in synergy with China's kit. 
Government.
"Qin Shi Huang:"
In the early game, I highly recommend switching to [Autocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Autocracy) as your Tier 1 government. The main reason is that it provides +10% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) towards Wonders. As mentioned above, this is purely to help us build more early game Wonders. All other governments are situational. 
"Kublai Khan:"
As Kublai is less reliant on early game Wonders, all governments are situational with him since he is so versatile. 
Government Plaza Buildings.
"Qin Shi Huang:"
In the early game, I highly recommend [Ancestral%20Hall%20%28Civ6%29](Ancestral Hall) because it helps us expand horizontally after we have focused on early game Wonders. The free Builder can be augmented by First Emperor, the [Pyramids%20%28Civ6%29](Pyramids) and [Serfdom%20%28Civ6%29](Serfdom)/[Public%20Works%20%28Civ6%29](Public Works) to result in a 7 charge Builder in every newly founded city. This allows China's excellent ability to go wide to be on par with [Rome%20%28Civ6%29](Rome), [Russia%20%28Civ6%29](Russia) and [Phoenician%20%28Civ6%29](Phoenicia). 
If you are going for a [Science%20Victory%20%28Civ6%29](Science Victory), getting [Royal%20Society%20%28Civ6%29](Royal Society) works exceptionally well with China's Builders. As each Builder charge is worth 2% of a [Space%20Race%20%28Civ6%29](Space Race) [Projects%20%28Civ6%29](Project), an 8 charge Chinese Builder can speed up the process by 16% each turn. 
"Kublai Khan:"
As mentioned above, since Kublai is so versatile, all Government Plaza Buildings are situational.
Governors.
For Qin Shi Huang, I recommend [Liang%20%28Surveyor%29%20%28Civ6%29](Liang) and [Magnus%20%28Steward%29%20%28Civ6%29](Magnus) as the two governors that have direct synergy with China's kit.
For Kublai Khan, [Reyna%20%28Financier%29%20%28Civ6%29](Reyna) is an excellent choice to complement Gerege. 
To complement Dynastic Cycle, I recommend [Pingala%20%28Educator%29%20%28Civ6%29](Pingala). [Librarian%20%28Civ6%29](Librarian), [Connoisseur%20%28Civ6%29](Connoisseur), [Researcher%20%28Civ6%29](Researcher), and [Grants%20%28Civ6%29](Grants) all help China gain momentum as she speeds through the Technology and Civic Trees. Grants is especially useful for triggering s and s that rely on Great People (such as [Mercantilism%20%28Civ6%29](Mercantillism) and [The%20Enlightenment%20%28Civ6%29](The Enlightenment)). Getting more [Great%20Scientist%20%28Civ6%29](Great Scientists) who provide s (such as [Dmitri%20Mendeleev%20%28Civ6%29](Dmitri Mendeleev)) also work well with Dynastic Cycle.
To complement the [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tiger) and [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) tile improvement, I recommend [Victor%20%28Castellan%29%20%28Civ6%29](Victor). The two titles to look out for are [Garrison%20Commander%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison Commander) and [Embrasure%20%28Civ6%29](Embrasure). Garrison Commander is great with defending [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) and [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) tile improvements, and Embrasure has great synergy with the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army) Wonder to get you double promoted troops.
Dedications.
"Qin Shi Huang:"
I highly recommend the [Golden%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age) version of Monumentality because it grants extra +2 for our already exceptional Builders and makes them cheaper to purchase via and . All other Dedications are situational.
"Kublai Khan:"
I highly recommend the [Golden%20Age%20%28Civ6%29](Golden Age) version of Free Inquiry because, as Kublai, you want to build [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) everywhere to make use of Gerege. Free Inquiry will give those Commercial Hubs extra .
As Kublai will be rich throughout the game, the Golden Age version of Monumentality also works well with him since he can buy discounted Builders with .
City-States.
"Qin Shi Huang:"
[Brussels%20%28Civ6%29](Brussels): The +15% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) towards all Wonders can be the deciding factor for you grabbing an extra key [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) to [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical) Wonder or not. When combined with the above-mentioned factors, you can potentially reach +55% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) towards [Ancient%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Ancient) to [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical) Wonders, thus boosting the value of each Builder charge to 23.25% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) of the target Wonder! Later into the game, more Wonders work well with Dynastic Cycle to grant you more and .
"Kublai Khan:"
All the Trade City-States work well with Kublai since he would want to prioritise [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) in his cities.
Any City-State that augments the effectiveness and/or quantity of s are also synergistic with Gerege. Examples would include the following: [Kumasi%20%28Civ6%29](Kumasi), [Singapore%20%28Civ6%29](Singapore), [Carthage%20%28Civ6%29](Carthage) and [Chinguetti%20%28Civ6%29](Chinguetti).
"Both Qin and Kublai:"
[Seoul%20%28Civ6%29](Seoul): This is simple and straightforward utility. The s are more valuable with Dynastic Cycle.
Playing As China In Multiplayer.
Since expanding quickly and playing aggressively is the general strategy in Multiplayer games, here are my three suggestions when playing as Qin.
If you are playing as Kublai:
Apocalypse Game Mode.
With the [Apocalypse%20%28Civ6%29](Apocalypse) game mode (introduced in the [Maya%20%26amp%3B%20Gran%20Colombia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Maya &amp; Gran Colombia Pack)), Qin's China gets an indirect and situational buff to his gameplay - the addition of [Soothsayer%20%28Civ6%29](Soothsayers).
The [Great%20Bath%20%28Civ6%29](Great Bath) (an Ancient Wonder that Qin can rush-build with Builder Charges) is incredibly powerful when combined with [Soothsayer%20%28Civ6%29](Soothsayers). This combination can allow for China to get reliably and infinitely scaling yields throughout the game. As is such a versatile currency, China can use it to: 
Secret Societies Game Mode.
With the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) game mode (introduced in the [Ethiopia%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Ethiopia Pack)) enabled, China gets a huge buff to her gameplay. My recommendation is [Owls%20of%20Minerva%20%28Civ6%29](Owls of Minerva) to complement her kit. [Voidsingers%20%28Civ6%29](Voidsingers) is a viable alternative for Qin. 
"Owls of Minerva:"
For Qin Shi Huang, the extra Economic policy slot with Initiation enables you to run the [Corvee%20%28Civ6%29](Corvee) policy card without sacrificing other integral cards to China's critical early game - e.g. [Ilkum%20%28Civ6%29](Ilkum) and [Colonization%20%28Civ6%29](Colonization).
For Kublai Khan, more policy card slots compliment his existing and additional Economic Policy Slot. The [Gilded%20Vault%20%28Civ6%29](Gilded Vault) fits his kit very well since he will prioritise [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) early on.
In the late game, improved and more numerous spies makes stealing Dynastic Cycle-powered technology boosts even more valuable as China.
"Voidsingers (For Qin Only):"
The key synergy here is combining the Divine Inspiration Follower Belief, the [Golden%20Age](Golden Age) version of [Monumentality%20%28Civ6%29](Monumentality), the government [Theocracy%20%28Civ6%29](Theocracy), the [Old%20God%20Obelisk%20%28Civ6%29](Old God Obelisk) and the [Chorus%20%28Civ6%29](Chorus) title. In essence, the abundant yields from the Old God Obelisk help you buy discounted Builders with Monumentality. This allows you to rush-build more Wonders, which then, because of Divine Inspiration, provide even more . This then translates to even more yields with the Chorus title. This synergy helps you then accumulate massive amounts of by the mid game which can then be used to purchase civilian units for general empire expansion and improvement. Transition into Theocracy for the discount to purchases. This synergy helps China catch up and surpass other rival civilisations in terms of owned territory and improved tiles.
Tech and Civic Shuffle Game Mode.
With the [Tech%20and%20Civic%20Shuffle%20%28Civ6%29](Tech and Civic Shuffle) game mode (introduced in the [Civilization%20VI%20August%202020%20Update](August 2020 Game Update)) enabled, the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ6%29](Great Library) receives a buff because the boosted technologies allow the human player to more strategically and efficiently plan his/her technology path and gain faster access to the associated Wonders. E.g. If you know exactly where [Mathematics%20%28Civ6%29](Mathematics) is, you do not have to take blind detours in your pathing to get to it; you would therefore get faster access to [Petra%20%28Civ6%29](Petra).
This applies more for Qin's China as he can rush-build the Great Library with Builder charges.
Kublai's ability to gain s and s through his s also helps him plan his paths through the Technology and Civic Trees more efficiently.
Dramatic Ages Game Mode.
With the [Dramatic%20Ages%20%28Civ6%29](Dramatic Ages) game mode (introduced in the [Byzantium%20%26amp%3B%20Gaul%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Byzantium &amp; Gaul Pack)) enabled, Qin's China receives a potential indirect buff to his gameplay.
For Qin, if he has built a lot of Wonders around the [Classical%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Classical Era) to [Medieval%20Era%20%28Civ6%29](Medieval Era), getting the [Mandala%20State%20%28Civ6%29](Mandala State) Golden Age policy card is very powerful to further maximise the value of his Wonders. The +4 [Culture%20%28Civ6%29](Culture) for each Wonder and extra [Loyalty%20%28Civ6%29](Loyalty) pressure can help China flip nearby cities to Chinese rule.
For Kublai, if he has many [Commercial%20Hub%20%28Civ6%29](Commercial Hubs) built, getting the [Monumentality%20%28Civ6%29/Civilopedia](Monumentality) Golden Age policy card can allow him to buy discounted Builders and Traders to help with early empire expansion. The [Free%20Inquiry%20%28Civ6%29](Free Inquiry) Golden Age policy card is also very helpful to net him more .
Heroes &amp; Legends Game Mode.
With the [Heroes%20%26amp%3B%20Legends%20%28Civ6%29](Heroes &amp; Legends) game mode (introduced in the [Babylon%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Babylon Pack)) enabled, Qin's China receives a potential buff in his gameplay.
The three heroes that complement Qin's kit well are [Hippolyta%20%28Civ6%29](Hippolyta), [Hercules%20%28Civ6%29](Hercules) and [Mulan%20%28Civ6%29](Mulan), with Hippolyta being the all-round best Hero for Qin.
Hippolyta is great because her active ability, Hippolyta's Command, allows Qin's Builders to rush-build Ancient and Classical Wonders twice per turn. This is an incredibly powerful ability especially since there is no limit to how many times she can use it. 
Hercules is great because he is able to instantly rush-build key districts with his active ability, Hercules' Labor. This helps China get faster access to key Ancient to Classical Wonders in the early game - e.g. [Campus%20%28Civ6%29](Campus) for the [Great%20Library%20%28Civ6%29](Great Library), [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) for [Mahabodhi%20Temple%20%28Civ6%29](Mahabodhi Temple), [Entertainment%20Complex%20%28Civ6%29](Entertainment Complex) for the [Colosseum%20%28Civ6%29](Colosseum) and [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) for the [Terracotta%20Army%20%28Civ6%29](Terracotta Army). The only drawback here is that he can only activate this ability three times per summon.
Mulan is situationally great because she complements China's defensive nature. Her passive ability, Mulan's Defiance, is basically a portable Great Wall. Because of her high mobility and 2 Range, she is essentially a super Crouching Tiger who also scales in Combat Strength and Ranged Combat Strength throughout the eras.
All three heroes are also excellent to help counter Barbarians in the early game.
A tip to help generate enough as Qin to be able to re-summon Heroes throughout the eras: Rush [Stonehenge%20%28Civ6%29](Stonehenge) and a [Holy%20Site%20%28Civ6%29](Holy Site) in the early game; then take Divine Inspiration and Pilgrimage as Follower and Founder beliefs respectively. This ensures that you can efficiently and effectively generate as you build your Wonders without having to invest in too many Holy Sites. The generated then scales with the number of cities and Wonders you have in your empire, and ensures that you have enough to re-summon Heroes as needed.
Since Kublai Khan is so versatile, any Hero can do well under him given the right circumstances. That said, if you also are playing with the [Secret%20Societies%20%28Civ6%29](Secret Societies) game mode enabled, [Himiko%20%28Civ6%29](Himiko) would work well with [Owls%20of%20Minerva%20%28Civ6%29](Owls of Minerva)'s [Initiation%20%28Civ6%29](Initiation) Title and Kublai Khan's [Kublai%20Khan%20%28Civ6%29](Gerege) ability to help him with generation.
A note that applies to both leaders: Hippolyta can help a Crouching Tiger fire twice in the same turn, or move to defensive terrain (e.g. a Great Wall tile) and then fire, thus augmenting the mobility and damage of this unit. In the hands of the right player, this can turn the Crouching Tiger from a defensive unit into a deadly offensive unit.
Monopolies and Corporations Game Mode.
With the [Monopolies%20and%20Corporations%20%28Civ6%29](Monopolies and Corporations) Game Mode (introduced in the [Vietnam%20%26amp%3B%20Kublai%20Khan%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Vietnam and Kublai Khan Pack)) enabled, both Qin and Kublai Khan's China get an indirect buff.
With Qin, if you can establish an early [Industry%20%28Civ6%29](Industry) with [Furs%20%28Civ6%29](Furs) and/or [Olives%20%28Civ6%29](Olives), you'll be able to gain the superior yields that come with that Industry as well as the unique bonus of +30% [Production%20%28Civ6%29](Production) towards civilian units in that city. This can help you pump out even cheaper Builders to help with your early Wonder rushing.
With Kublai, if you can establish an early Industry with [Diamonds%20%28Civ6%29](Diamonds), [Jade%20%28Civ6%29](Jade), [Silver%20%28Civ6%29](Silver) and/or [Truffles%20%28Civ6%29](Truffles), you'll be able to gain the superior yields that come with that Industry as well as the unique bonus of +25% in that city. This can help you boost your already good economy in the early to mid game.
Zombie Defense Game Mode.
With the [Zombie%20Defense%20%28Civ6%29](Zombie Defense) Game Mode (introduced in the [Portugal%20Pack%20%28Civ6%29](Portugal Pack)) enabled, the [Great%20Wall%20%28Civ6%29](Great Wall) now functions like the [Barricade%20%28Civ6%29](Barricade). It deals 10HP damage to, and exerts zone of control on hostile units passing through or adjacent to it. This is an excellent strategic upgrade for all stages of the game. 
The defensive value of [Crouching%20Tiger%20%28Civ6%29](Crouching Tigers) also increases as it is exceptional at dispatching Zombies during the Medieval and Renaissance Era. This is especially the case if a Crouching Tiger grabs the [Garrison%20%28Civ6%29](Garrison) promotion and sits on a walled [Encampment%20%28Civ6%29](Encampment) or Great Wall tile. 
How To Play Against China.
When facing against Qin (both in single and multiplayer), simply invade him with as much military might as you can muster in the early game while he is preoccupied with building Wonders. If he cannot snowball off the early game, she will be crippled for the rest of the game.
With Kublai (both in single and multiplayer), the approach is essentially the same. Declare war on him as soon as possible and get as many other players to join in against him to deny him the s and s that come with his s. 