# Clara Schumann (Civ6)/Civilopedia

Although not widely regarded as a composer - her husband Robert Schumann is, however - Clara Josephine Wieck was considered one of the greatest pianists of the Romantic era of classical music. In an acclaimed career that spanned six decades, she changed the format, style, and offerings of the traditional piano recital, and so refined the tastes of the general public.
Clara was born in Leipzig in September 1819 AD to her music instructor father, who insisted she receive training in piano, violin, voice, theory, harmony, composition, and counterpoint. It was under his watchful eye that she began performing publically at the age of eight. In 1840, much to her father's displeasure, she married Robert Schumann, one of his students. Together, they launched a successful collaboration in music, he composing for and she playing the piano. Clara continued performing despite marriage and motherhood (she gave birth to eight between 1841 and 1854). It was unheard of – and slightly scandalous.
The highly respected Clara and Robert befriended a number of talented young artists and composers. In 1844 they first met 14-year-old violin prodigy Joseph Joachim, who would later accompany Clara Schumann on a number of tours. In 1853 they met then-unknown Johannes Brahms and encouraged him to pursue his passion for composing for the piano; Clara was the first to perform his works in public.
After losing her husband to a spiral of depression, attempted suicide, commitment, and later death, Clara scarcely missed a beat in launching a series of concert tours in his memory, playing many of his unfinished pieces to critical praise, often paired with Joachim. For 40 years she remained the greatest of pianists, but suffered a stroke in March 1896 and died a few weeks later.