# Military Academy (Civ4)/Civilopedia

A "military academy" is an educational institution created to prepare young men and women for positions of leadership within the military. Such academies have existed throughout history. At these institutions students are taught how to command troops, how to communicate effectively, how to read maps, how to give and receive orders. They learn of the history of warfare. They are taught to understand strategy and tactics, as well as engineering, logistics and intelligence, and they often study classic treatises such as Sun Tzu's "The Art of War". They learn how to operate the weapons of the day - whether muzzle-loading rifle or satellite-guided artillery.
In most such institutions the young officers are taught a "code of honor" which emphasizes following orders and selfless dedication to their fellow soldiers and to their country. Students usually must follow an extremely rigorous course of physical training to ensure that their bodies are as finely-tuned as their minds. Military academies are undoubtedly effective, and most of the best generals of modern history have emerged from such institutions.
President Thomas Jefferson created the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1802. Its mission is: "To educate, train, and inspire the Corps of Cadets so that each graduate is a commissioned leader of character committed to the values of Duty, Honor, Country and prepared for a career of professional excellence and service to the Nation as an officer in the United States Army."