# Attila (Civ5)/Civilopedia

History.
Legendary warlord and greatest leader of the Hunnic Empire, Attila the Hun is remembered by history as the mastermind behind the unrelenting terror of Europe that were the Huns. Known to the Romans as "The Scourge of God," Attila united the tribal Huns and embarked on a series of fearsome military campaigns during the 5th century AD, continually antagonizing the Romans (among others) until his abrupt death in 453.
The Legend of Attila.
Much of our knowledge of Attila comes from the histories of his many enemies, with most accounts being particularly unfavorable, no doubt contributing to his bloodthirsty reputation. The Huns under Attila often obliterated the cities they sacked, not only pillaging anything of value, but doing such irreconcilable damage to the settlements that they became uninhabitable. The Huns purportedly massacred the populations of these cities, subjecting any survivors to a future of slavery.
The Sword of Attila, known as the "Sword of Mars" to the Romans, was the legendary weapon wielded by Attila that contributed to his renown as an invincible slayer of men. It was said that no man could look Attila directly in the eyes without flinching, his unflappable gaze proving too strong for even the most commanding of his rivals. These legends spread among the people in the absence of a carefully recorded history, which wouldn't become available until later in the 5th century.
Early Life and Campaigns.
Little is known of the early life of Attila before the death of his uncle Rua, who had led a loose confederation of Hunnic tribes north of the Danube River on various short-lived military campaigns. Attila and his brother Bleda took control of the Huns, sharing a dual kingship following Rua's death in 434. Following in the footsteps of their uncle, the two kings initially launched attacks against the Eastern Roman Empire ([Byzantine%20%28Civ5%29](Byzantium)) in hopes of generating a steady income of tribute. Unfortunately for both sides, the Romans often failed to keep their word, delivering little tribute and thus incurring swift and brutal reprisals from the Hunnic raiders. The saving grace for the Byzantines may have been Attila's western ambitions, where the Hunnic army occupied itself with fresh conflicts.
Movement Against [Roman%20%28Civ5%29](Rome).
The mysterious death of his brother Bleda in 445, some say by Attila's own hand, left Attila as the sole leader of an increasingly unified Hunnic force. In 447, Attila once again led his army into battle against the legions of the Eastern Roman Empire at the Battle of Utus, successfully defeating the Roman force, leaving little remaining opposition. However, Attila's army suffered substantial casualties during the battle, which prevented him from seizing the Eastern Roman capital, Constantinople. Instead, Attila struck northward towards the Balkans (also Eastern Roman territory), sacking city after uncontested city, plundering everything his men could carry.
After sweeping through the Eastern Roman Empire, Attila set his sights to the west. Moving swiftly across Europe, he launched successful attacks against the Visigoths throughout Gaul in 451-452. As the Hunnic horde marched onwards, many of the various tribal people they encountered joined Attila's force, some by choice, others compelled by intimidation. Regardless, the Huns were bolstered by these new recruits, and continued to pillage their way through the region until encountering a united Visigoth-Roman force on the fields of Gaul. At The Battle of the Catalaunian Plains, Attila was turned back by the Roman-led force, the only major defeat in his lifetime, providing Rome and her allies a temporary reprieve.
The Story of Honoria.
It is said that the sister of Roman Emperor Valentinian III, Honoria, who had secretly plotted to murder her timid brother and seize his throne, was exiled from Rome and sent to a convent in Constantinople. During this exile, Valentinian promised his sister's hand in marriage to an unknown Roman senator. Upon learning of her betrothal, Honoria attempted to contact Attila and gain his assistance in escaping the marriage. For reasons unknown, she sent Attila her engagement ring, which Attila interpreted as a marriage proposal. Claiming half of the Western Roman Empire as his dowry, Attila moved his force to invade Italy, despite Valentinian's insistence that the proposal was invalid.
March on Italy.
After years of clashes with the Romans, Attila finally marched on their homeland of Italy in 452. After sacking a number of cities in the northern reaches, Attila received numerous envoys from Valentinian, including Pope Leo I, all of whom pleaded with Attila to leave Italy without pursuing Rome further. For reasons that are unclear, Attila obliged (most likely due to lack of supplies). Shortly thereafter in 453, Attila died mysteriously. Some scarce evidence suggests that it may have been a simple nosebleed that toppled the mighty Hun on the night of his wedding, while other equally questionable accounts suggest he may have been assassinated.
The Roman historian Jordanes wrote that Attila's men cut their hair and slashed themselves with swords to honor Attila in death, stating "The greatest of all warriors should be mourned with no feminine lamentations and with no tears, but with the blood of men."
Judgment of History.
Attila the Hun's enduring legacy as a notorious warlord and bloodthirsty conqueror will be recorded in the annals of history for all time. A resourceful and committed leader, Attila pushed his armies to the limit, but had the foresight never to drive them to the point of exhaustion or mutiny, a claim bolstered by the fact that he only lost one major battle in some twenty-odd years leading the Huns. Treading fearlessly into the territory of the Romans, Attila challenged their authority at every opportunity and succeeded in bringing great wealth and notoriety to his people.