# World War II (Civ2)/Turks

The Turks are a playable faction in [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29](World War II), a [Scenario%20%28Civ2%29](scenario) in "[Civilization%20II](Civilization II)".
Biography.
Turks under King Inonu.
61 advances; Green; Rational, civilized, perfectionist; 50 gold, 11 units
Turkish Strategy.
Turkey is behind in [List%20of%20advances%20in%20Civ2](technology) and has only a few [Armor%20%28Civ2%29](Armor) and [Riflemen%20%28Civ2%29](Riflemen) to start with, but careful negotiations with the [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29/Russians](Russians) and [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29/Axis](Axis) can help you. Keep them on the side as a shield and peaceful trading partners. 
Staying neutral.
As a small power, and surrounded by the Axis to the northwest, [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29/French](French) and [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29/Allies](Allied) colonies to the south and Russians to the northeast, your best option is to sit out the war. Turkey is relatively undeveloped but has a reasonable defensive force, so build [Engineers%20%28Civ2%29](Engineers) and [Freight%20%28Civ2%29](Freight) to improve your [City%20%28Civ2%29](cities), found new ones in the empty land to the east and establish [Trade%20route%20%28Civ2%29](trade routes). Don't talk to the larger powers much, as they will try to entice you into joining the war on their side, and declare war on you if you refuse. Should you fancy a bit of conquest on the side, [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29/Neutrals](Neutral) Tehran is fair game without upsetting the larger powers, and [World%20War%20II%20%28Civ2%29/Spanish](Spain) is a possible target, though it's a long way across the Mediterranean for your [Transport%20%28Civ2%29](Transports).
Joining the fight.
The French colonies of Beirut and [Damascus](Damascus) are easy initial targets for conquest. The Allies will of course then declare war, but their main war machine is safely cut off behind the Axis territory and you can claim their nearby cities as well, but watch out for airlifts into Egypt. Neutral Tehran and [Belgrade](Belgrade) are also up for grabs, and there is still the option of settling the empty land further east. Use your new [Middle%20East](Middle East)ern empire to push across [Africa](Africa) and the Mediterranean, taking French and Allied cities but leaving the Axis alone until you've made your eventual assault on France or Spain. Taking either will give you Atlantic port cities from which to launch an invasion of Britain. The Turkish game is made easier by a change of [Government%20%28Civ2%29](government) - although the scenario disallows it, you are still able to have a revolution on the turn you discover or otherwise acquire the relevant advance. Use this to your advantage, switching first to [Communism%20%28government%29%20%28Civ2%29](Communism) and then [Fundamentalism%20%28government%29%20%28Civ2%29](Fundamentalism) and wage a holy war!