# Masjid Al-Haram (Civ4)/Civilopedia

The Masjid Al-Haram is an Islamic Mosque in the holy city of Mecca, which is located in western Saudi Arabia. The mosque contains the Kaaba, an ancient cube-shaped building which is said to have been built by the Prophet Ibrahim (Abraham) and his son, Ishmael, at the orders of Allah, and which is believed to be the holiest place on Earth. The Kaaba in turn houses the "Black Stone," which it is said has fallen from heaven and has the power to cleanse worshippers of their sins.
The Kaaba has always been revered as a holy place. Before the rise of Islam, the Kaaba was filled with idols, and Arabs from miles around came to worship there. Upon his return from exile, the prophet Muhammad smashed the idols and rededicated the mosque to Allah and Islam. It has remained an Islamic Holy place ever since and non-Muslims are forbidden to enter Mecca.
The Masjid Al-Haram is the focal point of the "hajj," a religious pilgrimage to Mecca required of all able-bodied Muslims (at least according to the Sunni sect). Every year during the holy month of Dhu'l-Hijjah, upwards of three million people visit the holy city and the most holy mosque within, thus fulfilling one of the "five pillars of Islam." The mosque has been enlarged and modernized to handle the extraordinary influx of faithful, but both the city and the mosque can barely handle the traffic.
The mosque is in the form of a huge sprawling building surrounding a mighty courtyard with the Kaaba in the center. The building is extraordinarily beautiful and constructed of marble and porcelain and gold and bedecked with graceful minarets (towers). The interior is a wonder of columned halls filled with tapestries and other marvelous decorations. The courtyard itself is paved with marble. Truly a magnificent place of worship, Masjid Al-Haram is said by some to surpass the Taj Mahal in glory and wonder.