# Strategies (FreeCol)/v0.10.x

The free-to-play game [FreeCol](FreeCol) has moved closer to its model "[Sid%20Meier%27s%20Colonization](Sid Meier's Colonization)" in 2011. Strategies that might have worked well earlier may now need revision under [FreeCol%200.10.0](FreeCol 0.10.0) and successive versions.
General Strategy.
As with all FreeCol games, there are a number of strategies that have general applicability:
Founding Fathers.
In a 1P game, always get [Thomas%20Jefferson%20%28Col%29](Thomas Jefferson) first, since his bonus to liberty bell production speeds your rate of gaining other new founding fathers. Benjamin Franklin and Hernando de Soto are useful for the reasons given above (de Soto much more so, since the income from goodie heads can be so important in the early game).
Unless your settlements are so productive or martial that a [Galleon%20%28Col%29](galleon) is needed, try to get [Hernan%20Cortes%20%28Col%29](Hernan Cortes) quickly, since he will allow your scouts to export your discovered or conquered treasures quickly and cheaply from any corner of the map, including the Great Lakes.
Unlike the original "Colonization", you don't need to feel apprehensive about gaining [Sieur%20de%20La%20Salle%20%28Col%29](Robert de la Salle), since you may still remove settlers and demolish colonies from settlements with a [Stockade%20%28Col%29](stockade).
Changes.
Map.
Default maps are mostly similar to previous versions, although new sprites have been used. However, the accessible area of West Greenland has been expanded, while northern Canada has become somewhat more inhospitable.
Some minor improvements include default placement of goodie heads at the sites of the Norse Eastern Settlement in Greenland and Vinland on Newfoundland Island. Discovering a lost colonist then equates to rediscovery of the Norse.
Trade.
Indian trade has been nerfed, paying much lower rates and offering smaller amounts of goods for sale. Trade goods have become much less profitable (from 2000+ to around 500/cwt.), so horses and muskets are a better bet for early expansion. On the other hand, some previously unavailable items like food and lumber are now available for sale, at rates that make Indian purchases of food (while slower) cheaper than purchasing units in Europe even at game start.
Travel.
Ships returning to the New World from Europe can now select whether they wish to reappear where the previously left (the top option) or whether they prefer to appear closer to existing colonies, allowing resupply much more easily.
European travel is also possible from the northern and southern map edges, making colonization of the Hudson Bay area more appealing, particularly for Russian players who can take advantage of its many fur bonuses.