# Hun (Civ3)/Civilopedia

The exact origin of the Huns is unknown, but they may have been descended from the tribe of nomadic barbarians known as the Hsiung-nu, who terrorized parts of China under the Han Dynasty in the second and third centuries BC. In any case, the Huns became known to Europeans when their migration westward across the vast steppes of Asia brought them into contact with the Germanic peoples living on the outskirts of the Roman Empire.
Like a wave sweeping away all that came before them, the Huns drove these Germanic tribes to seek refuge inside the more civilized regions to the south and west, causing the massive invasions which helped bring about the downfall of the western half of the Roman Empire. They conquered the Ostrogoths, who had settled north of the Black Sea, around 370AD and continued west into the former Roman province of Pannonia (roughly modern day Hungary, which bears their name to this day). There the Huns settled down and created a far-flung but loosely connected empire stretching across most of Eastern Europe, where they received annual tribute from dozens of Germanic tribes and, eventually, even from the Romans themselves.
The Huns were described by ancient sources as having Mongolian features; short, dark-haired, with bronze-colored skin and slanted eyes, they seemed like otherworldly invaders to the victims of their raids. The Huns were expert horsemen, practically living from the saddle for much of their lives. They made extensive use of horse archers and had a mobility far beyond that of any other contemporary forces, giving them the ability to carry out a kind of ancient blitzkrieg. The Huns terrified both Romans and Germans alike, and were known to all as "The Scourge of God".
The greatest of Hun leaders was Attila, who according to tradition came to power in 445 by murdering his older brother and co-ruler Bleda. Attila consolidated his rule over the Huns by claiming to wield the sword of Mars himself, and soon led them on a massive raid into the Balkans in 447. He defeated the armies of the Eastern Roman Empire and forced the Emperor Theodosius II to pay the Huns a massive annual tribute. After devastating much of Greece and Thrace from 447-50, Attila led the Huns and an enormous number of their Germanic allies westward into Gaul. They were met there by the Roman general Aetius, commanding a mixed force of Romans and Germans, and halted at the Battle of Châlons in 451. The battle appears to have been bloody but indecisive; however, it was accounted a Roman victory since Attila's army retreated from the field the next day.
The Huns turned south across the Alps the following year (452) and devastated nearly all of the cities of northern Italy. Milan, Verona, and Padua were destroyed and the region depopulated for decades to come. According to legend, Attila was prevented from attacking and destroying Rome due to the intercession of Pope Leo I; more likely, the Huns turned back to their homeland due to potential threats from Roman armies and the imminent onset of winter. While celebrating his victories over the Romans in Hungary, Attila was found to have died in his bed, apparently by choking on his own blood from a nosebleed while sleeping. His empire did not survive his death; within a short period of time factionalism had split apart the Huns. They were shortly absorbed into the surrounding German nations, disappearing from history forever.