# Confucianism (Civ6)/Civilopedia

Confucianism is less of a faith and more of a political philosophy based on the teachings of the Chinese philosopher Confucius (551-479 BC). Originally introduced as an ethical and social philosophy for the privileged elite, Confucianism has grown to a following of several million in the present day, mainly concentrated in the regions of East Asia.
During his life, Confucius sought to instill a strong belief in personal morality, social responsibility, and family loyalty, as each person served their “proper” role in society. He set his musings down in the so-called Five Classics. As a humanist philosophy, Confucianism focuses on the ability of every human being to learn, grow, and improve through ethical behavior and consideration for others, and emphasizes the social role of all -- including the ruler.
Following Confucius’ death, his teachings spread for nearly 200 years until attempts at suppressing the philosophy were undertaken in earnest by the Qin Dynasty, which sought to place the ruler above all. The Qin rulers believed that Confucianism was a direct threat to their authority, and, as a result, they had most Confucian books burned, including many of Confucius' original writings. Temples were destroyed across the country, and a few stubborn followers of Confucianism were buried alive.
Despite these attempts to wipe out the Confucian teachings, a hidden store of Confucian manuscripts was later discovered in the walls of a scholar’s home, and the religion found new life after the fall of the Qin. In the present-day, the works of Confucianism are studied by folk throughout the world, often as more a political and moral philosophy than a religion.