# Byzantine (Civ5)/Rise of the Mongols/Civilopedia

The ancient Greek city of Byzantium, destined to become the seat of power for two distinct empires, was founded in 667 BC by a Greek colonist named Byzas. Although the early history of Byzantium is intertwined with the legends of Greek mythology, historians are relatively confident that these settlers traveled from the Greek city of Megara after sailing across the Aegean Sea.
Strategically positioned near the trade routes connecting Europe to Asia, Byzantium quickly grew in size and prosperity. In 324 AD, the Roman Emperor Constantine would choose to rebuild Byzantium in the image of Rome itself, forming the new capital of the Eastern Roman Empire (known as the Byzantine Empire in the present day). The city would henceforth be known to the people as Constantinople, and would remain the capital of the Byzantine Empire until its fall some 1000 years later.
In 1453 the Ottoman Empire would capture the city of Constantinople, sounding the death knell of the Byzantine Empire. The Ottoman ruler, Mehmed II, would however continue the legacy of Constantinople by declaring it the new capital of the Ottoman Empire. Although known to the Turks as "Istanbul," the city would not be officially renamed until 1930.
From Byzantium to Constantinople to Istanbul, the small Greek colony has grown from its early roots to become one of the world's largest and most prosperous cities. Modern Istanbul is considered a "megacity," with a population of over 13 million people, making it the largest city in Turkey. A UNESCO World Heritage site, Istanbul continues the traditions of its past with a vast and varied array of social and cultural events occurring each year.